National Hockey League/National Hockey League Players’ Association
Memorandum of Understanding
It is hereby agreed by and between the National Hockey League (“NHL” or “League”) and the National
Hockey League Players’ Association (“NHLPA” or “Union”) that the collective bargaining agreement
entered into the 15th day of February 2013, and set to expire on September 15, 2022 (“CBA”) is hereby
extended to and including September 15, 2026, except to the extent expressly modified by or
inconsistent with this Memorandum of Understanding, including the Attachments (“MOU”), the terms
of which are set forth below. Except where the MOU provision is referencing a new term, the
capitalized terms in this document shall apply the definitions from the CBA. This agreement shall
become effective on the date when the last of the two parties to do so ratifies this agreement.
#
1.

Economic Issues
Term

Description
Four-year extension to the current CBA through September 15,
2026.
However, to the extent the funds placed in the Escrow Account
for the 2024/25 League Year are insufficient to make up (i) the
Overage for that League Year plus (ii) any portions of Overages
from previous League Years not paid to the League (the
difference shall be considered the “2024/25 Escrow Balance”),
and the 2024/25 Escrow Balance at the end of the 2024/25
League Year (i.e., June 30, 2025) is in excess of $125 million, but
does not exceed $250 million, the term of the CBA will
automatically extend for one additional League Year (i.e.,
through the 2026/27 League Year and expiring on September 15,
2027) (the “Extension Year”). The 2024/25 Escrow Balance shall
be determined no later than June 30, 2025 based on Preliminary
HRR for the 2024/25 League Year.
In event of an Extension Year, (i) the Escrow Percentage for the
2026/27 League Year shall not exceed 9% and (ii) there shall be
no year-over-year increase to the Upper Limit as compared to
the Upper Limit for the 2025/26 League Year. Subject to the
limit described above, the Escrow Percentage for the 2026/27
League Year shall be set with the goal of ensuring that the
Escrow Account for the 2026/27 League Year is sufficient to pay
off the remaining Escrow Balance plus any estimated Overage
for the 2026/27 League Year.
To the extent that the 2024/25 Escrow Balance is either: (i) less
than $125 million, or (ii) greater than $250 million, the CBA will
terminate in the normal course as of its original date of expiry
(i.e., September 15, 2026). Absent agreement to the contrary,
the full amount of the remaining Escrow Balance at the
Page 1 of 71

conclusion of the CBA shall be due and payable to the NHL on
terms to be negotiated as part of any new CBA.
2.

Payroll Range

2020/21:
•
•
•

Upper Limit = $81.5 Million
Midpoint = $70.9 Million
Lower Limit = $60.2 Million

Thereafter (subject to the provisions above regarding the
Extension Year):
•

Upper Limit will remain at $81.5 Million until Preliminary
HRR for the just completed League Year surpasses $3.3
Billion.

•

For any League Year where Preliminary HRR is between
$3.3 Billion and $4.8 Billion, the Upper Limit for the
following League Year shall be between $81.5 Million and
$82.5 Million on a pro rata basis (e.g., if Preliminary HRR
is $4.05 Billion, the Upper Limit will be $82 Million).

•

Once Preliminary HRR for the immediately preceding
League Year surpasses $4.8 Billion, the Upper Limit will
increase by $1 Million per League Year until the Escrow
Balance is paid off.

•

The parties can agree to increase the Upper Limit in
excess of $1 Million in order to allow for a smoother
transition into the ‘Lag’ formula.

•

The parties agree to discuss the Upper Limit in good faith
in the event projected or Actual HRR decreases on a year
over year basis.

Lag Formula (subject to the provisions above regarding the
Extension Year):
•

Parties to discuss and approve detailed mechanics and
implementation of the ‘Lag’ formula subject to the
following general parameters:
o Introduce the ‘Lag’ formula after the Escrow
Balance has been repaid but not earlier than
establishing the Upper Limit for 2023/24 League
Year.
o Apply the current Payroll Range formula except
for the following changes:
Page 2 of 71

(1) Use HRR from the League Year two years prior
(instead of Preliminary HRR from the immediately
preceding League Year) (i.e., using HRR for Year 1
to set the Payroll Range for Year 3).
(2) Remove the Growth Factor (i.e., do not adjust
the resulting Midpoint (based on Final HRR per (1)
above) upward to yield the Adjusted Midpoint as
provided for in Section 50.5(b)(i)).
o Maximum year-over-year increase in the Upper
Limit will be the lesser of 5% and the trailing twoyear average HRR growth percentage (measured
using Final HRR from the League Year four years
prior, Final HRR from the League Year three years
prior, and Preliminary HRR from two years prior
and after taking into account any FX impact
adjustments)
o Except for the 2026-27 League Year, minimum
year-over-year increase in the Upper Limit is the
lesser of 2.5% and the trailing two-year average
HRR growth percentage. (measured using Final
HRR from the League Year four years prior, Final
HRR from the League Year three years prior, and
Preliminary HRR from two years prior and after
taking into account any FX impact adjustments)
o For any immediately upcoming League Year for
which the NHL and NHLPA anticipate a Shortfall
(as defined in Section 50.11(a)(i)) based on
Preliminary or projected HRR, the parties may
(but are not required to) increase the Upper Limit
for that upcoming League Year by up to an
additional 5% (over and above the increases
dictated by the provisions above) so long as both
the NHL and NHLPA agree to do so by the June
15th prior to that start of that League Year.
o The remaining aspects of the Payroll Range (i.e.,
the Lower Limit and Midpoint) shall in all

Page 3 of 71

instances be set in accordance with the terms of
the current CBA.
3.

Escrow

To the extent the funds placed in the Escrow Account for any
given League Year are insufficient to make up (i) the projected
Overage for that League Year plus (ii) any portions of Overages
from previous League Years not paid to the League, the
difference shall be considered the “Escrow Balance.”
The schedule below lists the maximum Escrow Percentages for a
given League Year (“Maximum Escrow Percentages”). With the
exception of the Escrow Percentage for the 2021/22 League Year
(which shall be determined as set forth below), the applicable
Maximum Escrow Percentage shall be utilized for a given League
Year. However, in the event that the Maximum Escrow
Percentage would, based on jointly-developed forecasts for HRR
and League-wide Player Compensation for that League Year,
result in an Escrow Balance of zero following the completion of
that League Year, the parties may negotiate a lower Escrow
Percentage for that League Year (i.e., the goal being to get the
Escrow Balance to zero). To the extent that utilizing the
Maximum Escrow Percentage for a given League Year results in
an Escrow Balance or does not eliminate an Escrow Balance, any
such Escrow Balance shall carry forward into (and be factored
into the setting of the Escrow Percentage for) the following
League Year (with the exception of the 2021/22 League Year).
2020/21
2021/22

2022/23
2023/24
2024/25
2025/26

20%
14% if Preliminary HRR for the 2020/21
League Year equals or exceeds $3.3
Billion; 18% if Preliminary HRR for the
2020/21 League Year equals or is below
$1.8 Billion; pro-rata rate in between $1.8
Billion and $3.3 Billion (e.g. Escrow
Percentage of 16% if HRR is $2.55 Billion)
10%
6%
6%
6%

2019/20 Escrow Account:
•

Parties agree that the entirety of the April 15, 2020
payroll (excluding payments owed on account of previous
year Buy-Outs) shall be deposited into the Escrow
Account. Payments owed pursuant to previous year BuyPage 4 of 71

Outs will be paid to the applicable Players using a 14%
Escrow Percentage.
•

The NHLPA agrees that 100% of the funds held in the
Escrow Account for the 2019/20 League Year shall be
released to the League within 15 days of ratification of
this agreement by the NHLPA.

•

Subject to Sections 50.12(g)-(m) of the CBA and the May
9, 2017 letter agreement between the NHL, the NHLPA
and Renaissance Associates Ltd., the NHL and its Clubs (i)
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to produce
within a reasonable period of time documents
reasonably requested by the NHLPA’s independent
auditor, including in native electronic form, and (ii)
subject to further discussion and agreement, will
establish a common platform to allow the NHL’s and the
NHLPA’s independent auditors to retain such documents
for a reasonable amount of time upon conclusion of the
audits. For purposes of clarity (i) the parties will
otherwise continue to act in a manner consistent with
prior practice, and (ii) the expedited release of the funds
held in the Escrow Account referred to above is not
conditional or contingent, including upon the production
of any requested document, and shall proceed in
accordance with the terms hereof and the parties will
otherwise reserve their rights with respect to any
outstanding document production requests, if any.

•

This expedited release is without prejudice to the
NHLPA’s rights under Sections 50.12(g)-(m) of the CBA,
and the parties reserve their respective rights under the
CBA.

Escrow Account for all future League Years until: (i) the Escrow
Balance is less than $125 million or the beginning of the 2023/24
League Year, whichever occurs sooner, and (ii) HRR exceeds $4.8
Billion in a given League Year under this Agreement:
•

If there is a projected Overage or Escrow Balance for the
current League Year, then to the extent that all of the
funds held in the Escrow Account for that League Year
are projected to be returned to the League, the NHLPA
agrees to release 100% of the funds held in the Escrow
Account for that League Year to the League on a biweekly rolling basis during that League Year.
Page 5 of 71

•

Subject to Sections 50.12(g)-(m) of the CBA and the May
9, 2017 letter agreement between the NHL, the NHLPA
and Renaissance Associates Ltd., the NHL and its Clubs (i)
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to produce
within a reasonable period of time documents
reasonably requested by the NHLPA’s independent
auditor, including in native electronic form, and (ii)
subject to further discussion and agreement, will
establish a common platform to allow the NHL’s and the
NHLPA’s independent auditors to retain such documents
for a reasonable amount of time upon conclusion of the
audits. For purposes of clarity (i) the parties will
otherwise continue to act in a manner consistent with
prior practice, and (ii) the expedited release of the funds
held in the Escrow Account referred to above is not
conditional or contingent, including upon the production
of any requested document, and shall proceed in
accordance with the terms hereof and the parties will
otherwise reserve their rights with respect to any
outstanding document production requests, if any.

•

This expedited release is without prejudice to the
NHLPA’s rights under Sections 50.12(g)-(m) of the CBA,
and the parties reserve their respective rights under the
CBA.

Notwithstanding Section 50.11(d), in the event of a Shortfall in
any given League Year under this agreement, to the extent there
remains an Escrow Balance, (i) funds in the Escrow Account for
that League Year shall first be used to pay such Escrow Balance
and (ii) Clubs shall not be obligated to make any supplemental
payments (as such term is used in Section 50.11(d)) to the
Players. Rather, funds in the Escrow Account and the amount of
any such required supplemental payments shall instead be used
to reduce or pay off the Escrow Balance in full. To the extent
that there remains any Shortfall obligation on the Clubs, such
funds will be paid to the Players as provided by Section 50.11(d)
of the CBA.
In connection with this agreement, (i) for the 2019-20 League
Year, the NHL agrees to waive any potential applicability of SPC
Paragraph 17 solely on account of the loss of games due to the
COVID-19 pandemic on a non-precedential and without
prejudice basis for future League Years, (ii) For the 2020-21
League Year, the NHL agrees to waive any potential applicability
Page 6 of 71

of Paragraph 17(c) in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic
on a non-precedential and without prejudice basis for future
League Years, and (iii) such waivers do not affect any other rights
or positions of the parties with respect to SPC Paragraph 17.
4.

5.

Deferred Compensation

Fall 2020 Payroll

•

An amount equal to ten (10) percent of each Player’s
2020/21 Paragraph 1 NHL Salary plus Signing Bonus (but,
for clarity, not including Roster, Reporting and
Performance Bonuses) shall be “deferred” (the “20-21
Deferred Salary”) (subject to conformance with
applicable 409A Regulations) from the 2020/21 League
Year without interest and paid in three (3) equal
payments on October 15 of each of the 2022-23, 2023-24
and 2024-25 League Years. Only Players with 2020/21
SPCs shall be included in this process.

•

Each Player’s 20-21 Deferred Salary actually earned shall
be payable in full notwithstanding a subsequent Buyout,
expiration or termination of his SPC, and is not
contingent on the Player continuing to play after the
2020/21 season.

•

The deferral of 20-21 Deferred Salary will not otherwise
change the terms of any SPC nor the method of
calculating the Averaged Amount for purposes of
determining compliance with the Payroll Range. Any 2021 Deferred Salary will be charged to Players’ Share in
the League Year it is paid.

•

For Players with insufficient Paragraph 1 NHL Salary to
defer an amount equal to the 20-21 Deferred Salary, the
parties will agree on a mechanism to allow them to defer
as much of the 20-21 Deferred Salary as possible,
including by deferring the entirety of his 2020/21
Paragraph 1 NHL Salary if necessary.

•

The parties agree to further discuss the details and
logistics necessary to implement this deferment.

•

The parties also agree to continue discussions regarding
the possibility of allowing Players and Clubs to negotiate
additional deferrals on an individual basis within limits.

In the event the parties agree to start the 2020/21 NHL Regular
Season after November 15, 2020, the Clubs shall pay each
“Roster Freeze Player” (as defined in the Transition Rules) who
as of October 31, 2020 has an SPC for the 2020/21 League Year a
Page 7 of 71

paycheck in the amount of 8.1% (15/186) of his 2020-21
Paragraph 1 NHL Salary by October 31, 2020. The total amount
paid to these “Roster Freeze Players” shall be an advance of
their 2020/21 Paragraph 1 NHL Salary (or Paragraph 1 Minor
League Salary, as the case may be) and included in 2020/21
Actual Club Salary to the extent it otherwise would be included
(e.g., If the Player receives $50,000 and he is in the NHL for the
entire 2020-21 Regular Season, the entire $50,000 would be
included in Actual Club Salary. If he is in the Minors for the entire
season, the $50,000 would be considered an advance of his
Paragraph 1 Minor League Salary and would not be included in
Actual Club Salary). For each Roster Freeze Player who received
an advance payment, their remaining 2020/21 Paragraph 1
Salary shall be paid pro-rata over the course of the remainder of
the 2020/21 Regular Season. Any portion of an advance not
earned by a Player hereunder shall be included in Actual Club
Salary.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Roster Freeze Player has filed
for Salary Arbitration and does not yet have an SPC as of October
31, 2020, his Club will pay him such paycheck within seven (7)
days of the resolution of his Salary Arbitration matter.
6.

Benefit Credit

CBA §50.3(a)(i)(B) amended as follows:
(B) A credit in the following amounts:
(1) $10M in the 2020/21 League Year
(2) $12.5M in the 2021/22 and the 2022/23 League Years
(3) $15M in the 2023/24, 2024/25, and 2025/26 League
Years

#
7.

Player Benefit Issues

Description

NHL Benefits for Players on CBA amended to provide:
One-Way Contracts
• Effective the first day of the 2020/21 Regular Season,
Players with one-way SPCs and 160 or more NHL games
played (including games dressed for goalies) will continue
to be entitled to, and covered by, NHL benefits (health,
life, and disability insurance) if assigned to minors.
Players will also retain NHL coverage during the
offseason to same extent as other NHL Players.
• Disability benefits are subject to market availability, and
the benefit amount may be reduced for such Players for
Page 8 of 71

•

•

8.

Wellness Services

claims incurred while assigned to the minors as per
further discussion with program underwriters.
NHL to provide additional data from Central Registry to
the Health Fund Office and the NHLPA to denote Players
on one-way contracts and games dressed for goalies.
NHL will be responsible for paying the cost of this
coverage off-share. The Health Fund Office will direct bill
the League on behalf of the Clubs on a monthly basis.

See Attachment A.
Effective the first day of the 2020/21 Regular Season.

9.

Clarify Release for CareerEnding and Serious
Disability

Effective immediately, replace CBA §23.3(d) in its entirety with
the below and make corresponding revisions to SPC ¶5(d) and
CBA Exs. 9-12:
(d) In consideration of the payments made by the Club to
fund the group health benefits plan, career ending
disability policy and serious disability policy and other
consideration (including any and all benefits afforded to
the Player under this CBA and his SPC, including but not
limited to the payment of salary referenced in CBA Section
23.4 and SPC Paragraph 5(d),where applicable, and the
Club’s continuing responsibility for payment of medical and
dental costs associated with the treatment of hockeyrelated injuries under CBA Section 23.10 and SPC
Paragraph 5(c)), the Player does hereby covenant that in
the event he receives full payment of a claim under such
career ending disability policy or serious disability policy, he
personally releases and will release, and will cause his
corporation if a corporate contract is involved to release,
the Club, the League, the NHLPA, all other Clubs, the
insurance carrier, and the servants, employees, officers and
agents of each of the above from any and every additional
obligation, liability, claim or demand for any additional
salary or other payments, arising out of or relating to such
injury or the treatment thereof, including without
limitation liability in tort, and extending to all damages,
whenever arising.

10. Health Insurance for
Retired Players

CBA amended to provide:
•

Effective July 1, 2021, NHL health insurance will be
extended to December 1 for Players who have qualified
for off-season coverage and who have retired following
the end of the prior regular season or who are unsigned
Page 9 of 71

•

•

•

•

•
•

11. Extend Benefits for
Surviving Dependents
Following Death of Player

free agents at the start of the regular season, at no cost
to Player. (This does not apply to the 2020/21 season
since the offseason coverage will continue until the first
day of the 2020/21 season). The NHL will pay half the
cost of this extended coverage off-share.
Effective immediately, former Players currently enrolled
in retiree coverage on the Health Plan and all current and
future Players that enroll in retiree coverage on the
Health Plan pursuant to Article 23.6 will be eligible for a
subsidy toward the cost of their medical insurance,
except that no former Player shall be eligible for the
subsidy while he is working for a Club, the League, or the
NHLPA.
The subsidy shall be in the annual amount of $3,500 per
Player in the currency of the coverage the Player is
enrolled in (USD or CAD), not to exceed 80% of the cost
of the coverage of the plan option the Player is enrolled
in. The NHL will pay 50% of the cost off-share. The
remaining 50% of the cost will be on-share.
Effective with the 2022/23 League Year, current and
future Players will be eligible for an increased annual
subsidy amount of $5,000 per Player in the currency of
the coverage the Player is enrolled in (USD or CAD), not
to exceed 80% of the cost of the coverage depending on
the plan option the Player is enrolled in. The increased
subsidy amount will apply to Players with an NHL SPC for
the 2019/20 League Year, or any subsequent League
Year.
The NHL will pay 50% of the first $3,500 of the subsidy,
plus 100% of the amount of the increase of the subsidy
amount (additional $1,500) off-share. The balance of the
cost ($1,750) will be paid on-share.
The Health Fund Office will direct invoice the NHL on a
quarterly basis, in arrears.
The parties agree to continue to work jointly to maximize
the number and quality of health insurance plan options
for retired Players.

CBA §23.6(c) amended to provide:
•

Effective immediately, coverage for the Player’s eligible
dependents will continue automatically for 6 months
following the death of an active Player or a retired Player
who was covered under the Plan as of his date of death.
Page 10 of 71

•

•

•

•

•

•

Premiums will be paid by the NHL Club for the
dependents of active Players. Following the 6-month
period, surviving dependents may then elect to purchase
continuation of coverage under COBRA for 36 months, or
continue coverage under the retired Player plan options
if the Player otherwise qualified for such coverage under
Article 23.6.
Premiums will be waived by the Fund for 6 months in the
case of a retired Player who was covered under the plan
as of his date of death.
The parties can explore the availability and cost for the
Fund to purchase a life insurance policy with the Fund as
the beneficiary to cover this risk, subject to cost sharing
of any premium costs for active Players and retired
Players as outlined below.
Coverage for the surviving dependents will remain the
same as the coverage that was in effect on the date of
the retired Player’s death (e.g., if the dependents were
covered by the PPO plan as of the date of the retired
Player’s death, they will remain in the PPO plan for the
automatic 6-month coverage period). After the 6-month
period ends, surviving dependents may elect to continue
coverage on a premium paying basis through COBRA for
36 months, or pursuant to Article 23.6(c) through the
retired Player plan options if the Player otherwise
qualified for such coverage under Article 23.6. The
surviving dependents will be provided with the
opportunity to change their plan option at such time (i.e.,
they will not have to wait until the next open enrollment
date to make a change).
Article 23.6(c) to be amended to add the right for a
Player’s dependent child(ren) to be eligible to elect
continuation of coverage to age 26, on a premium paying
basis, when there is no surviving parent who would
otherwise be eligible to elect such coverage.
Article 23.6(c) to be revised to specifically articulate the
existing rule that the surviving spouse benefit includes
coverage for dependent children up to age 26.

Costs associated with active Players remain on-share. NHL pays
costs associated with retired Players off-share. The Health Fund
Page 11 of 71

Office will direct invoice the NHL on an as incurred basis for costs
associated with retired Players.
12. Health Insurance Benefits
for Players on Playoff
Recall

CBA §23.5 amended to provide:
•

•

•

Effective immediately, Players who sign with an NHL
team after the end of the regular season will be covered
under NHL benefits (health insurance, life insurance and
disability insurance) effective from the date that they are
added to the NHL Playing Roster during the playoffs. Such
coverage will extend through the offseason in the same
manner as other NHL Players.
Players who are recalled from a minor league team
during the playoffs for the purpose of practicing and
travelling with the team (playoff standby Players), but are
not added to the Playing Roster, will not qualify for any
additional coverage (no change to current on the
assumption that these Players already have either minor
league or NHL coverage).
To the extent that there is any situation in which a
playoff standby Player would not already have minor
league or NHL coverage, the parties will confer and agree
upon a means to ensure that such Player has some form
of coverage.

NHL Clubs will pay for associated costs off-share. The Health
Fund Office will direct invoice to the applicable Club(s).
13. Revise Training Camp and
CBA §23.9(a) amended to provide:
Summer Conditioning
• Effective with the start of training camp for the 2020/21
Camp Emergency Coverage
season, coverage currently provided under Article 23.9(a)
for Players attending summer conditioning camp and/or
NHL training camp who are not otherwise covered under
NHL or minor league insurance either will 1) be replaced
with a separate insurance policy, subject to market
availability; or 2) continue to be processed via the Players
health fund with any costs to be reimbursed to the fund
by the NHL. The period of coverage shall be:
o From the date of the Player’s arrival at summer
conditioning camp (including a period of up to 5
days in advance of the camp starting) and
continuing until his departure date (including a
period of up to 3 days following the conclusion of
camp).
Page 12 of 71

o From the date of the Player’s arrival at NHL
training camp (including a period of up to 10 days
in advance of the date training camp opens) and
ending on the first day of the NHL regular season.
•

•

Extend emergency medical and dental coverage to
eligible dependents who travel with the Player to his NHL
city for training camp. Eligible dependents will be the
same as eligible dependents as defined under the NHL
Players’ Health and Benefits Plan.
Policy will provide coverage for non-hockey related
medical and dental illness or injury requiring emergency
or urgent treatment that arises while attending an NHL
team’s training camp or summer conditioning camp. NHL
teams are responsible for any medical or dental
treatment costs for Players who suffer injuries in training
camp or summer conditioning camp.

NHL Clubs will pay for associated costs off-share. If separate
policy, to be placed by League’s broker and it will be billed
directly to the League.
14. Align Eligibility to Ensure
No Gaps for Covered
Players Between NHL and
Minor League Plans

Effective October, 1, 2021, CBA §23.9 amended to provide
coverage under the NHL Players’ Health and Benefits Fund for
any Player who was signed to an NHL SPC in the prior season,
was covered under minor league health coverage during the
offseason, and who starts the regular season on an NHL roster is
effective on the first day of the regular season or October 1, if
earlier.

15. Insurance Eligibility for
Injured Non-Roster, NonRoster Players and
Suspended Players

CBA §23.5 amended to provide:
•

•

Effective the first day of the 2020/21 Regular Season, all
Injured Non-Roster Players and their eligible dependents
will continue to be covered under NHL health benefits.
Effective immediately, suspended Players and their
dependents (except where a Player is suspended for
failure to report for reasons other than disability) will
continue to be eligible for NHL health benefits.

Eligibility continues for as long as Player remains under contract
and employed by NHL Club and should be terminated only in the
event of an expulsion/contract termination or contract
expiration. A contract termination/expiration during the
offseason shall not impact the Player’s offseason coverage if he
had otherwise qualified based on his days on roster or roster
status as of the last day of the Regular Season.
Page 13 of 71

16. Review Insured Roster
Effective immediately, the Article 1 definition of Insured Roster
Definition in CBA to Reflect will be amended as follows:
Eligibility Rules in SPD
"Insured Roster" means the Players under SPC to a Club
who are eligible for insurance coverage under the
eligibility rules specified in the NHL Players Health &
Benefits Fund’s Summary Plan Description.
17. Change to Specialist Fee
Guide for Dental Claims in
Canada; Increase Routine
Dental Exams from One to
Two per Plan Year; Update
CBA Language to Reflect
Current Plan Rules and
Recent Plan Changes

Effective immediately, CBA §23.7(a) amended to reflect the Plan
benefits as described in the current Plan description, including
all Summaries of Material Modifications (“SMM”) and to add the
following benefits:
•

•

Dental Claims in Canada to be covered up to the current
Specialist Fee Guide (previously covered up to General
Practitioners Fee Guide).
Increase the number of permissible Dental Exams from
one to two routine exams per plan year.

CBA § 23.7(b) amended to reflect that coverage provided to
Canadian residents includes coverage for eligible products and
services that are provided in private clinics in Canada.
18. Funding and Process for
Payment of SABH
Treatment Costs

Effective immediately, SABH program amended as follows:
•

•

•

•
19. Clarify SPC Guarantee
Covers Player Participation
in League or Joint
Corporate Sponsorship

Separate the SABH program into a separately funded
sub-trust of the Health Fund. Parties to work with Fund
Counsel and the Health Fund Office to implement as soon
as practicable.
Implement “Trusted Administrator” to confidentially
receive identifiable claims information and confirm
category of beneficiary (e.g. Player, retiree, spouse, or
other family member) and details of services performed
and before de-identifying and forwarding claim for
processing. Parties to work with Fund Counsel and Fund
Office to implement as soon as practicable.
NHL to assume responsibility off-share for the treatment
costs incurred by the program on behalf of Retired
Players who are eligible under the SABH program. NHL to
be direct billed by Fund Office for these costs.
Treatment costs incurred by the program on behalf of
Active Players remain on-share.

Effective immediately, CBA §23.4 replaced in its entirety with the
below:
A Player under an SPC who is disabled and unable to
perform his duties as a hockey Player by reason of an
Page 14 of 71

Events, Promotional and
Charity Events

injury sustained during the course of his employment as
a hockey Player, including travel with his team or on
business requested by his Club or by the NHL, shall be
entitled to receive his remaining Paragraph 1 Salary and
Signing Bonuses due in accordance with the terms of his
SPC for the remaining stated term of his SPC as long as
the said disability and inability to perform continue but in
no event beyond the expiration date of the fixed term of
his SPC. For clarity, the above entitlement to receive
Paragraph 1 Salary and Signing Bonuses upon onset of
disability shall apply in the event such disability is by
reason of an injury sustained during the course of his
participation in (including travel to or from) any NHLrelated or Club-related promotional, sponsorship,
business or charitable activity.
•

20. DB Plan: Extend
Retirement Plan, Including
Cost of Living Indexing,
with Updated Funding
Terms Based on Plan
Actuary’s Current
Estimates

Extend the retirement plan through the term of the
extended agreement, including cost of living indexing of
415 limits (Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code) for
all participants through 2025/26.
• Increase the annual funding of the retirement plan to the
following:
2020/21 season $39.407 Million
2021/22 season $40.678 Million
2022/23 through 2025/26 seasons $43.6 Million
• Continue annual funding of Shortfall amount as
calculated by the Plan actuary.
• Amend Article 21.11(a)(i) to reflect updated contribution
amounts and to incorporate shortfall funding obligation.
• All additional required funding for the DB Plan will
continue to be on-share in the same manner as the
current agreement.

21. DB Plan: Change Timing of
Club Contributions from
Single Year End
Contribution to Monthly
Contributions During the
Season

CBA § 21.11(a) amended to require Annual Funding Obligation to
be contributed monthly by the 15th of each month between and
including September and March in an amount equal to 1/8th of
the estimated Annual Funding Obligation for the Plan Year, with
an additional contribution by April 30 to contribute any
remaining portion of the actual Annual Funding Obligation for
the Plan Year.
The parties will update, in conjunction with Plan counsel, the
Reconciliation Funding language in Article 21.11 (b) and Funding
of True-Up Amounts language in Article 21.11 (c) to reflect the
extended term of the agreement. Article 21.11(c)(i) will be
updated to reflect the agreement in the section below regarding

22. DB Plan: Update
Reconciliation and
Termination Funding
Requirements

Page 15 of 71

the funding of the Pension Reserve Fund. The parties will
update, in conjunction with Plan counsel, any side letter
agreements pertaining to the Plan.
23. DB Plan: Funding and
Distribution of Pension
Reserve Fund

On or before September 1, 2020, transfer $47.0 Million from the
Pension Reserve Fund to pre-fund the past service costs
attributable to all retirement plan improvements made for
benefits accrued as of April 30, 2020. The remainder of the past
service cost (service accrued after April 30, 2020 but prior to
April 30, 2022) to be amortized over 25 years starting in 2022.
This amortization charge is included in the annual funding
amounts outlined above. The remaining balance in the Pension
Reserve Fund will remain invested and will not be distributed at
the expiration of the current CBA or earlier. Annual
contributions in the amount of $5.0 Million will be made to the
Pension Reserve Fund for the 2019/20 season and annually
through the 2025/26 season (total additional new contributions
of $35.0 Million over 7 years).

24. DB Plan: Credit Games
Effective immediately, CBA §21.14 amended to:
Missed Due to Suspensions
• Specify that games missed due to suspensions will be
and Clarify that Credited
treated as credited service under the Retirement Plan.
Service under the
Game credits to be adjusted retroactively to 2013 for
Retirement Plan Includes
Games missed as the result of on-ice suspensions, SABH
Games Missed During
suspensions while the Player is receiving treatment and
Which a Player Is on the
other off-ice suspensions (except where a Player is
Injured Non-Roster List,
suspended for failure to report for reasons other than
the Non-Roster Player List,
disability, or games while a Player is suspended and
or Is Missed Due to a
prohibited from using Club facilities or participating in
Waiver Claim or Trade
Club activities, or where the SPC has been terminated).
• Clarify that all games missed (a) due to an approved
leave of absence which results in the Player being
designated as a Non-Roster Player (e.g. birth of a child,
death of a family member or close friend, other family
emergency) or an Injured Non-Roster Player, or (b) due
to a Trade or Waiver Claim while the Player is temporarily
assigned to the minors on a non-game day(s) (missed
game(s) due to imbalance in schedule between prior Club
and new Club), shall be treated as Credited Service under
the Retirement Plan. Game credits to be adjusted
retroactively to 2013. For clarity, CBA §21.14 shall be
amended to add the bolded text at the end of the 3rd
sentence in this section: “A Player who is Traded or
claimed on Waivers during the Regular Season will be
Page 16 of 71

credited with any games missed due to a Trade or Waiver
claim which takes place either while the Player is on
Roster as of the date of Trade or Waiver Claim, or was
temporarily assigned off Roster on a non-game day(s)
immediately prior to the Trade or Waiver Claim.
o Example: a Player is assigned on Jan. 7 by Club A
and traded to Club B on Jan. 9 (with Jan. 7 & 8
being non-game days for Club A), the Player
would be eligible for a trade credit adjustment, if
Club B (acquiring Club) has fewer games
remaining in the season than Club A on the date
of the trade (Jan. 9): Club A has 41 games
remaining on Jan. 9 and Club B has 39 games
remaining on Jan. 9, the Player would receive a
trade credit adjustment of 2 games because he
would not have an opportunity to receive credit
for the full 82 games due to the trade.
25. DB Plan: Add a
Preretirement Death
Benefit for Unmarried
Participants with Minor
Children as of the Player’s
Date of Death

CBA Article 21 amended to provide for a preretirement death
benefit payable to minor children of Players who are unmarried
as their date of death:
•
•
•

26. DB Plan: Modify the
Preretirement Death
Benefit to Permit Widows
to Commence Actuarially
Reduced Benefits as Early
as the Participant’s Date of
Death

Monthly benefit shall equal the unreduced value of
Player’s accrued benefit as a monthly benefit at age 62.
Monthly benefit shall continue until the youngest
dependent child attains age 19.
In the event that there is more than one minor
dependent child as of the Player’s date of death, the total
monthly benefit shall be allocated proportionally among
the accounts established for the support and use of each
dependent child until that child attains age 19, at which
date, the monthly benefit shall be reallocated among the
remaining accounts of dependent children who have not
attained age 19.

CBA Article 21 amended to provide for the option to commence
an actuarially reduced preretirement death benefit payable to
widows of Players as early as the Player’s date of death.

Page 17 of 71

27. DB Plan: Modify the
Disability Pension Benefit
to Provide for New
Minimum Benefit Payable
to Age 62 and to Eliminate
Service Requirements

CBA § 21.18 amended to add new minimum disability benefit
payable until a Player attains age 62 and to eliminate service
requirement:
•
•

28. 401(k): Modify the U.S.
Savings Plan to Permit the
Deferral of All
Compensation and to
Eliminate Eligibility
Requirements

29. 401(k): Modify the U.S.
Savings Plan to Add Roth
Accounts

New minimum benefit shall equal $6,000 per month
payable to any Player or Former Player who becomes
disabled before he commences his retirement benefit
Disability definition synonymous with Social Security
definition (but Social Security Award not required)

CBA § 21.20 amended to permit the following with an effective
date to be determined in consultation with Plan counsel:
•

the deferral of compensation paid to a Player in any form
during the Plan Year. Signing bonuses, playoff bonuses,
performance bonuses, and buy-out payments shall be
eligible for deferral.

•

the deferral of compensation during any time during the
Plan Year prior to the Player’s termination of service with
a Club. Any Player employed by a Club may make
deferrals to the U.S. Savings Plan without regard to the
roster status of the Player.

CBA §21.20 amended to add Roth contribution accounts to the
U.S. Savings Plan with an effective date to be determined in
consultation with Plan counsel.

30. 401(k): Agree to Consider
If new benefit options are permitted by laws enacted during the
Amendments of the U.S.
term of the CBA, the parties shall consider amendments to the
Savings Plan to Incorporate U.S. Savings Plan to incorporate such options.
New Benefit Forms
Permitted by Laws Enacted
During the Term of the
CBA
31. Senior Player Gifting

#

Parties agree to increase annual funding by $1 million ($500,000
provided by NHL and $500,000 by NHLPA) starting in February
2021.

Medical-Legal Issues

Description

32. FTP Second Opinions Upon
Buy Out

CBA Ex. 1 (SPC) amended per Attachment B.

33. Confirmation of FTP Exam
When Not Conducted by
Doctor

CBA Ex. 1 (SPC) amended to add a new subparagraph 5(q) as
follows:

Page 18 of 71

A Player who has received a fitness to play determination that
was not the result of a physical examination conducted by the
Club physician may request a subsequent evaluation by the Club
physician to determine his fitness to play status as of the date of
the subsequent evaluation. The Player shall request and then
submit himself for the subsequent evaluation as soon as
reasonably possible. The Club physician shall determine
whether or not the Player is fit to play.
34. Second Medical Opinion
List – Selection and
Removal

CBA §34.4(a) amended per Attachment C.

35. Disputes Regarding
Violations of Standards of
Care and Professional
Responsibilities by Club
Doctors

See Attachment D.

36. Periodic Information
Notice of 2nd Opinion
Availability for Diagnosis &
Treatment for Certain
Injury Types to Players

The poster and information sheet provided at Attachment F will
be provided in all NHL training rooms (home and visiting).

37. Second Opinions (Course
of Treatment) by Player’s
Own Doctor

CBA § 34.4 amended to add the following subsection:

38. Club Medical Services
Agreements

CBA amended to insert new Subsection 34.2(c) that prohibits
Clubs from entering into commercial and/or sponsorship
agreements that remove or restrict their discretion to (i) select
and maintain professional personnel for their medical staff, or

Formation of the Panel of Experts per Attachment E.

Formation of the Panel of Experts per Attachment E.

(g) A Player is entitled to obtain a second medical opinion
from a physician(s) of his choice who is not on the Second
Medical Opinion List and has not received advance approval
from the Club as set out in Subsection 34.4(c) (the “Player’s
physician”). The costs of such opinion shall be borne by the
Player. Upon the Player’s request, the Club shall provide the
Player with all relevant medical information from the Player’s
records to provide to the Player’s physician. The Player shall
provide all such relevant records to the Player’s physician. The
Club Physician shall determine the diagnosis or course of
treatment (including the timing thereof) after considering any
report or other records received from the Player’s physician and
after giving due consideration to their recommendations.

Page 19 of 71

(ii) refer Players for examination or treatment to third party
service providers.
39. Administrative and
Logistical Support for Club
Medical Staff

Parties agree to form a joint task group to advise the Medical
Standards Subcommittee on appropriate minimum standards for
Club medical resources and staffing to be made available on Club
road trips.

40. Rehabilitation of Injury in
Off Season

CBA §34.6 (a), (b), and (c) replaced with the following:

41. Entitlement to Post-Career
Medical Care for All
Hockey Related Injuries
(Clarification)

CBA §23.10 amended per Attachment G.

42. Post-Career Medical
Treatment - Incidental
Expenses

CBA amended to provide coverage of incidental expenses
associated with post-career medical treatment for hockey
related injuries, subject to the Club’s knowledge and prior
consent.

A Player may rehabilitate his injury during the off-season in the
city of his home or other location unless the Club establishes any
of the following: that the rehabilitation facility, the ATs proposed
to administer such rehabilitation, and/or the course of
treatment proposed, are not suitable for the rehabilitation of
the injury. The Club will be responsible for the reasonable costs
incurred in connection with such rehabilitation. Disputes arising
out of this provision may be referred to expedited arbitration
pursuant to Subsection 17.17 in which case the Club will bear
the burden of establishing that the rehabilitation facility, the ATs
proposed to administer such rehabilitation, and/or the course of
treatment proposed, are not suitable for the rehabilitation of
the injury.

See Attachment G
43. Post-Retirement Medical
Exam

See Attachment H.

44. Workers Compensation in
Canada

The NHL and Clubs will cease any opposition to and in the future
refrain from opposing legislative and/or regulatory efforts to
extend Workers Compensation benefits in Canadian provinces to
professional athletes.

45. Club Offset of Employment
Compensation Against
Players’ Workers’ Comp
Benefits

CBA §31.5 amended by inserting new subparagraph (c):
(c) No offset. Notwithstanding any statute, regulation or
other state, provincial or federal laws to the contrary,
neither the Club, nor any entity or agent acting on its
Page 20 of 71

behalf, shall seek or receive any reimbursement, credit or
offset against a workers’ compensation award or
settlement based on any compensation paid by Club to a
Player while under an SPC. “Compensation paid by Club
to a Player” includes, but is not limited to, per diem,
salary, bonuses, permanent disability (and/or
impairment), medical treatment, temporary total
disability benefits and temporary partial disability
benefits.
46. PESP: Neutral Independent
Administrator

Parties agree to appoint a neutral independent administrator to
provide administrative direction and support to the PESP
Committee, including in the administration of results
management and disciplinary process.

47. PESP: Threshold Limits

CBA §47.8 amended to provide that the presence of the
following substances shall be considered a positive test result
only if the confirmation test level exceeds the below:
•
•
•

Zeranol: 0.9 ng/mL
Zilpaterol: 0.9 ng/mL
Clenbuterol 0.9 ng/mL

However, results at (or below) the above levels will be reported
to the Program Committee. In the event that a Player tests at or
below the above confirmation test levels, the Player shall be
subject to Reasonable Cause Testing pursuant to Section
47.6(c)(i), but not Sections 47.6(c)(ii) or (iii) for a period of no
more than 6 months. A test result pursuant to such Reasonable
Cause Testing shall be considered a positive only if the
confirmation test level exceeds the levels set out above.
CBA § 47.3 amended to provide that the Parties, with the
assistance of the Independent Administrator, shall confer on an
annual basis to consider whether additional substances should
be added to the list of substances subject to confirmation test
levels. A decision to include an additional substance on the list,
as well as the confirmation levels applicable thereto, shall be
made jointly by the Parties, taking into account evidence
confirming the presence of the substance in the food chain
and/or the environment and such other evidence and
considerations relevant and appropriate to the determination.
48. PESP: “A” Sample Test
Results

CBA amended to provide that “A Sample” test results, including
supporting testing and collection documents, will be provided to
all relevant parties immediately upon notification (by the Lab) of
a potential Adverse Analytical Finding.
Page 21 of 71

49. PESP: Delay in Provision of
Test Results

CBA §47.8 amended to provide that an Adverse Analytical
Finding issued to a Player more than 14 business days after the
Player has been tested cannot form the basis of a positive test
result.

50. SABH

In addition to the agreement referenced in item #18 above, the
Parties agree to continue to negotiate in good faith for a revised
SABH program document.

#

Player Contracting Issues

51. Entry Level Compensation
Limits

Description
CBA §9.3(a) amended to provide the following compensation
limits:
Draft Year
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026

Maximum
$925,000
$925,000
$925,000
$950,000
$950,000
$975,000
$975,000
$1,000,000

52. Minor League
Compensation (ELS)

CBA §9.4 amended to provide the following compensation limits:

53. Exhibit 5 League-Paid
Individual “B” NHL
Awards/Trophies Bonuses
for ELS Players

CBA Exhibit 5 amended as follows:

Draft Year
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026

•

•
•

Maximum
Minors
$70,000
$80,000
$80,000
$82,500
$82,500
$85,000
$85,000
$87,500

The Art Ross Trophy shall be added to Section 2(a)(i)
along with the Hart, Norris, Vezina, Selke and Richard
starting with the 2020/21 League Year.
The Bill Masterton, Mark Messier and King Clancy Awards
shall be added to Section 2(a)(iii) along with the Jennings
starting with the 2020/21 League Year.
Individual “B” Bonuses that are payable by the League (as
set out in Exhibit 5 and amended herein) shall not be

Page 22 of 71

•

54. Exhibit 5 Club-Paid
Individual “A” and “B”
Performance Bonuses

CBA Exhibit 5 amended as follows:
•
•

55. NHL Minimum Salary

counted against League-wide Player Compensation or the
Players’ Share.
All League-paid Individual “B” Bonus amounts in Section
2 shall be increased by 50% starting with 2022/23 League
Year. For example, starting in 2022/23, the amount
payable for the Conn Smythe shall be $375,000, 1st Team
All-Star shall be $150,000, etc.

The Art Ross Trophy shall be added to Section 2(a)(i)
along with the Hart, Norris, Vezina, Selke and Richard
starting with the 2020/21 League Year.
Starting with Entry Level Contracts signed after the 2022
NHL Draft, Exhibit 5 Club-Paid Individual “A” and “B”
Performance Bonuses shall be increased as follows:
o “A” Bonuses: Aggregate maximum amount receivable
per season increases from $850,000 to $1,000,000.
Aggregate maximum amount receivable for any single
category of bonuses increases from $212,500 to
$250,000.
o “B” Bonuses (Club-paid): Aggregate maximum
amount per season and per bonus increases from
$2,000,000 to $2,500,000.

CBA §11.12(a) amended to provide:
Season
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
2025-26

Minimum Salary
$700,000
$700,000
$750,000
$750,000
$775,000
$775,000
$775,000

56. §13.23 Waivers

CBA §13.23 amendedf such that it shall continue to apply to
another Club’s RFA but it shall not apply to UFAs who play for a
club outside North America after the start of the NHL Regular
Season through and including December 15.

57. Training Camp –
Professional Tryouts

Revised PTO and ATO agreements as attached.
See Attachment I

Page 23 of 71

58. NMCs/NTCs

59. Salary Arbitration

CBA §11.8 amended to provide that No-Trade and No-Move
clauses shall always travel with the Player in the event of an
Assignment (by Trade or Waivers) of the SPC.
•

Salary Arbitration briefs shall be limited to: 1) 42 pages
(exclusive of indices, glossaries, tables of contents, and
exhibits), and 2) size 12-point Times New Roman font,
double-spaced, one-inch margins (except charts, tables,
headings, footnotes, citations).

•

A Salary Arbitration matter may not be settled after the
hearing has commenced.

60. UFA Interview Period

The UFA Interview Period (CBA Exhibit 15) shall be eliminated.

61. Tagging

Clubs must have an Averaged Club Salary that is compliant with
the Upper Limit at all times as follows:
• “Off-Season Cap Accounting” (as currently applied per
Article 50.5(d)(i)(A)) for the period of July 1 through and
including the last day of Training Camp.
• “In-Season Cap Accounting” (as currently applied per
Article 50.5(d)(i)(B)) for the period of the first day of the
NHL Regular Season through and including June 30.
• “Projected Off-Season Cap Accounting” (as currently
applied per Article 50.5(d)(i)(A)) for the period of the first
day of the NHL Regular Season through and including
June 30, provided, however, that during this period the
calculations under Article 50.5(d)(i)(A) will be based on
the Averaged Amounts relevant for the following League
Year and may not exceed the Club’s current Upper Limit
plus ten (10) percent. Any such Averaged Amounts that
are attributable at a rate reflective of a Player’s time on
NHL roster (e.g. Two-Way SPCs and Two-Way Qualifying
Offers) will be based on the Player’s currently projected
time on NHL roster for the current League Year as
reflected within the In-Season Cap Accounting.
• Effective with the 2020/21 League Year, this “Projected
Off-Season Cap Accounting” rule shall replace the
“Tagging Rule” in the current CBA.

62. Performance Bonus
Cushion

CBA §50.5(h) clarified to provide that the Performance Bonus
Cushion remains in the final year of the CBA.

63. Cap Advantage Recapture

CBA §50.5(d)(ii)(B)(1)(iv) amended to provide as follows:
The Cap Advantage Recapture shall be charged against the
Club’s Averaged Club Salary either: (i) in equal proportions in
Page 24 of 71

each League Year over the remaining term of the SPC (i.e., the
yearly charge shall be calculated by dividing the Cap Advantage
Recapture by the number of seasons remaining under that SPC);
or (ii) in an amount equal to the contract’s Averaged Amount
(and such lesser amount in the final year) in as many League
Years as are required to account fully for the Cap Advantage
Recapture amount (i.e., the yearly charge shall be the Averaged
Amount of the contract until such time as the remaining portion
of the Cap Advantage Recapture is less than the Averaged
Amount, in which case the last yearly charge shall be the
remaining portion of the Cap Advantage Recapture). The latter
formula specified in (ii) above shall only be utilized in cases
where the equal proportion calculation specified in (i) above
exceeds the Averaged Amount.
64. 35+ Year Old Rule for Cap
Counting

CBA §50.5(d)(i)(B)(5) shall have no application to a multi-year
SPC that has: (1) total compensation (Player Salary and Bonuses)
that is either the same as or increases from one League Year to
the immediately subsequent League Year, and (2) a Signing
Bonus, if any, that is payable in the first year of the SPC only.

65. Trade Conditions Making it
More Onerous for an
Acquiring Club to Re-Sign a
Player

Clubs shall not be permitted to include as a condition in the
Trade of a Player (“Traded Player”) from one Club (“Trading
Club”) to another Club (“Acquiring Club”), a modification to the
compensation exchanged between the Trading Club and the
Acquiring Club, either in the event: (i) that a Club signs the
Traded Player to an NHL SPC, or (ii) of the subsequent
Assignment of the Traded Player by the Acquiring Club. The
restriction in (i) shall only be applicable when the Traded Player
has a current or future NHL SPC at the time of the Trade.

66. Traded Player Ability to
Sign an 8-Year SPC

CBA §50.8(b)(iv) shall be amended to provide that when a Club
acquires a Player who is signed through the subsequent Trade
Deadline, it can immediately sign him to an 8-year SPC without
waiting until the subsequent Trade Deadline if otherwise
permitted to do so under Section 50.5(f).

67. Variability

CBA §50.7(a) amended to provide as follows:
For all "Front-Loaded SPCs" (as defined below), the difference
between the stated Player Salary and Bonuses in any
immediately adjacent League Years of that SPC cannot exceed
twenty-five (25) percent of the stated Player Salary and Bonuses
of the first League Year of such Front-Loaded SPC. Additionally,
under no circumstances may the stated Player Salary and
Bonuses in any League Year of a Front-Loaded SPC be less than
Page 25 of 71

sixty (60) percent of the highest stated Player Salary and
Bonuses in a League Year of that same Front-Loaded SPC.
68. Qualifying Offers

For SPCs signed after the date of this agreement, if the minimum
Paragraph 1 NHL Salary portion of a Player’s Qualifying Offer
would otherwise be greater than 120% of the Averaged Amount
of the SPC, the minimum Paragraph 1 NHL Salary portion of the
Qualifying Offer will instead be 120% of the Averaged Amount.
For example, if a Player has a 3 year SPC with Paragraph 1 NHL
Salaries of $3.0 million in Year 1, $6.0 million in Year 2, and $9.0
million in Year 3, the minimum Paragraph 1 NHL Salary portion
of the Qualifying Offer will be $7.2 million. If, however, such
Player’s 3 year SPC had Paragraph 1 NHL Salaries of $5.0 million
in Year 1, $6.0 million in Year 2, and $7.0 million in Year 3, the
minimum Paragraph 1 NHL Salary portion of the Qualifying Offer
will be $7.0 million.

#

Working Conditions Issues

69. Days off

Description
CBA §16.5(a) replaced in its entirety with following:
Clubs shall provide each Player with a monthly
travel/practice schedule prior to each month of the
Regular Season indicating the days that have been
designated as days off for each Player. Clubs shall
schedule no less than four (4) days off for Players per
month (up to two of which may be scheduled on the
road) during each full calendar month of the NHL Regular
Season, and for any other calendar month of the NHL
Regular Season, no less than one (1) off day for every
seven (7) days of the NHL regular season during the
month of October and one (1) off day for every ten (10)
days of the NHL regular season during the month of April.
A day off shall be a day off for all purposes, except that if
a Club travels following the conclusion of a game, the
next day may be considered a day off if the Club is
scheduled to arrive at its destination city by no later than
2:00 a.m. local time. If a Club travels on the day following
a game (i.e., stays at a hotel overnight and departs the
following morning), such day may not be considered a
day off. The parties recognize that events may unfold
such that the monthly schedule may need to be altered
or modified to adjust for unforeseen and compelling
circumstances. The Clubs shall use their best efforts to
notify and consult with the Club’s NHLPA Player
Page 26 of 71

Representative (or other NHLPA Player Designee), either
in advance of, or as soon as practicable following, the
decision to make such alterations or modifications.
League scheduled off-days or breaks (e.g., All-Star break,
Holidays, Olympics) shall count as a day off for purposes
of this subsection (a).
70. Integrate Bye Week into
CBA

CBA §16.5 amended to provide new Subsection (e) per
Attachment J.

71. NHL All-Star Game Format

CBA §16.15 amended per Attachment J.

72. Scheduling More Back-toBack Road Games in Same
City

Parties agree to continue discussing potential to minimize travel
burdens on Clubs and Players by scheduling back-to-back road
games in the same city where feasible.

73. Increase Rent/Mortgage
Reimbursement Amounts

CBA §14.2(a)(vii) amended to provide for the following
maximum reimbursement amounts:
•
•
•
•
•
•

2020/21
2021/22
2022/23
2023/24
2024/25
2025/26

$4,700
$5,150
$5,300
$5,450
$5,600
$5,750

74. Reimbursement of
Incidental Costs Resulting
from Player Relocations

CBA §14.3 amended to add the following incidentals to the
“moving expenses” provision: cancelled lease costs and
penalties; utility connection/disconnection fees; vehicle
importation duties and fees; and filing costs of revising legal
documents to reflect new addresses and replacing drivers’
licenses and vehicle permits. Reimbursement limited to
documented, out of pocket costs for the Player only -- not for
estimated or projected costs.

75. Residence Entitlement

CBA §14.2(c) amended to add the following illustration:
Illustration 13. A Player is Loaned to a minor league club
by NHL Club A. At the time of the Loan, the Transferred
Player was entitled to, and had obtained a residence in or
around the area of City A (the "City A Residence") for
which he is subject to rent or mortgage obligations. The
Player does not obtain a residence in the minor league
city to which he was Loaned by Club A. The Player is then
Traded to, or claimed on Waivers by Club B. The Player
does not obtain a residence in City B. Club B then Loans
the Player to the Minors. The Player is entitled to, and
does obtain a residence in the minor league city to which
Page 27 of 71

he was Loaned by Club B within 12 months of the date of
the Transfer from Club A to Club B; or the Player is on a
two-way SPC at the time of the subsequent Loan to the
Minors by Club B. The Transferred Player still has ongoing
rent or mortgage obligations on the City A residence. The
Player is entitled to rent or mortgage reimbursement on
the City A Residence from Club B, in accordance with this
Article 14.
76. Rental Car Entitlement

CBA §14.5(b) amended by deleting “Player whose SPC is Traded
during the NHL Season” and replacing with “Transferred Player.”
Replace all subsequent references to “Trade” in that subsection
with “Transfer.”

77. Clubs to Provide Monthly
Reports of
Loaned/Recalled Players
and the Hotel, Per Diem,
and Rental Car Benefits
Provided

Clubs will provide monthly reports of loaned/recalled Players
and the hotel, per diem, and rental car benefits provided them
using the form at Attachment K.

78. House-Hunting Airfare

Replace CBA §14.7 in its entirety with the following:
14.7 Airfare.
(a) Provided that he is not in the Entry Level System, the
Club shall offer to a Player for whom it has Traded or who it
has claimed on Waivers, and his Spouse (or Living
Companion), one occasion of round-trip business class air
travel for the specific purpose of searching for suitable
housing in the new city and one-way business class air travel
for the purpose of actually relocating from the prior city to
the new city. Such house-hunting and relocation airfare shall
also be offered to the following persons, provided that the
entitlement is limited to economy class air travel: (i) a Player
in the Entry Level System who is Traded or claimed on
Waivers and his spouse (or Living Companion), (ii) a Player
who is Loaned (regardless of whether he is in the Entry Level
System) and his spouse (or Living Companion), and (iii) a
Transferred Player or his Spouse (or Living Companion)’s
child(ren).
(b) In the event a Transferred Player does not intend to
relocate his family to the new city, his spouse (or Living
Companion) and child(ren) shall be entitled to one occasion of

Page 28 of 71

round-trip economy class air travel between the prior city and
the new city.
(c) The Club shall also reimburse any reasonable baggage
fees incurred in connection with any such travel described in
(a) or (b) above.
79. Business Class Airfare for
Non-ELS Player Where
Available, Regardless of
Length of Flight

Replace CBA §15.1(a)(i) in its entirety with the following:

80. Business Class Spousal
Travel Where Player Is
Entitled

Replace CBA §15.1(b)(i) in its entirety with the following:

81. Travel for Up to 4
Additional Immediate
Family Members to NHL
Awards and Other NHL
Special Events

Insert new CBA §16.16 as follows:

82. Business Class Travel for
All Players Returning to
Club City via Commercial
Air Travel Due to Injury

Insert new subsection in CBA Article 34 as follows:

(i) Players signed to an SPC who are not in the Entry Level
System shall be entitled to business class air travel from a
Player's summer residence to Training Camp, and in
returning to said summer residence at the end of the season
provided that travel to Training Camp is booked at least 14
days prior to reporting to Training Camp where it is
reasonably practicable to do so.
(i) If the Player's spouse (or Living Companion) flies, they shall
be entitled to the same class of air travel as the Player,
provided that they are travelling with the Player. Children
(and/or the Player’s spouse or Living Companion when
travelling separately from the Player) shall be entitled to
economy class air travel.
16.16 NHL Awards
The Club must provide Business Class air travel to and from
the NHL Awards host city to any Player nominated for an
award or who is otherwise requested by the League to
participate in an NHL Awards related event. Players shall also
have the option to invite their Spouse (or Living Companion)
to the NHL Awards, as well as up to four (4) immediate family
members (e.g., the Player’s parents, grandparents, siblings,
and/or children), with airfare to be paid at the Club’s expense
(Business Class travel for Spouse (or Living Companion) and
Economy Class travel for immediate family members).

34.14 Injured Player Travel
In the event that a Player is required to return to his Club city
by commercial air travel following an injury sustained while

Page 29 of 71

travelling with his Club he shall be entitled to business class
air travel.
83. Enforcing Prohibitions on
Compulsory Off-Season
Training

CBA §15.11 replaced in its entirety per Attachment L.

84. Fitness Testing

The parties agree to create a working group to evaluate Fitness
Testing practices and to agree upon fitness testing protocols
with best efforts for League-wide implementation by no later
than the beginning of training camp for the 2020/21 season. The
parties agree to implement appropriate penalties for violations
of the fitness testing protocols including fines and other
penalties as determined to be appropriate by the Commissioner
or his designee, in consultation with the Executive Director of
the NHLPA.

85. Game-Worn Jerseys

Clubs will make two game-worn jerseys available to each Player
on a complimentary basis, provided that they are for Player’s
personal or charitable use and not for commercial use.

86. Game-Used Equipment

The NHLPA agrees that it will grant its consent to any Club
proposed modification to the Standard Club Rules (CBA Exhibit
14), that places reasonable restrictions on a Player’s use of
game-used equipment that has been provided by the Club,
including any prohibition on its commercial sale or other
use. Any such rule may neither require a Player to, nor restrict a
Player from using his own equipment in an NHL Game, nor may a
Player be restricted in any way from the subsequent use or
disposition of his own equipment.

87. Payroll Access

The Clubs shall make timely electronic access to Player payroll
records available to the NHLPA.

88. Playoff Fund

•

•

For the 2019/20 season, the Playoff Fund will be
increased from $16 Million to $32 Million. The parties
agree to split the $16 Million increase (i.e. include $24
Million in Player Benefits).
For the remaining CBA term:
o CBA §28.1 amended to increase the annual
amount of the Playoff Fund as follows:
2020/21
$20 Million
2021/22
$20 Million
2022/23
$21 Million
2023/24
$22 Million
2024/25
$23 Million
Page 30 of 71

2025/26
$24 Million
o Starting with the 2021/22 season, the Playoff
Fund shall be removed from Player Benefits,
and will instead be deducted from HRR as a
Direct Cost (same treatment as the All Star
Game prize pool).
#

Other Issues

89. Olympics

Description
CBA Article 24 amended to include new subsection 24.10.
24.10 Notwithstanding the foregoing, the NHL and the
NHLPA commit to participate in the 2022 and 2026 Winter
Olympics, subject to negotiation of terms acceptable to each
of the NHL, NHLPA, and IIHF (and/or IOC).

90. Industry Growth Fund

•

•

91. Revenue Sharing

The parties will maintain the Industry Growth Fund at its
currently contemplated funding levels of $20 million on a
callable basis per year, up to a maximum of $60 million
on a callable basis at any one time until the earlier of: (a)
the 2022/23 season (provided League-wide revenues in
the 2021/22 season exceeds $4.6 Billion); or (b) the first
season following the season in which League-wide
revenues exceed $4.8 Billion, at which time the
contemplated funding levels will be increased to $30
million on a callable basis per year, up to a maximum of
$90 million on a callable basis at any one time. Such
revised funding levels will remain in place for the balance
of the extended CBA.
The parties agree to dedicate up to $2.5 Million per year
of currently available IGF dollars to help fund programs
and initiatives aimed at increasing diversity and inclusion
in the game, as well as promoting social justice and racial
equality, with any and all such grants subject to the usual
IGF Committee review and approval process. The
amount so dedicated pursuant to this paragraph will be
increased to a minimum of $5 Million per year upon the
increase in funding levels from $20/$60 to $30/$90 as
contemplated in the paragraph above.

The NHL shall have a one-time option, exercisable on or before
June 30, 2021, to temporarily modify the application of CBA
Section 49.3(b), by disregarding the final clause therein, which
otherwise would have the effect of reducing by fifty (50) percent
the “full share” Distribution to Recipient Clubs who operate in
large DMA markets (as referenced in CBA Sections 49.1(h) and
Page 31 of 71

49.3(b)). If this option is exercised, the modified application of
CBA Section 49.3(b) (granting “full share” Distributions to large
DMA Recipient Clubs) would commence in the next full League
Year after exercise of the option, and be continued for the
balance of the term of the CBA. In addition, the Recipient Clubs
who operate in large DMA markets and receive a "full share"
Distribution will automatically be subject to CBA Section
49.3(d)(i)(A) and therefore required to submit a forward-looking
three-year business plan to the Revenue Sharing Oversight
Committee prior to October 1 of the League Year after exercise
of the option. Upon completion of the final League Year of the
CBA, this temporary modification of the application of Section
49.3(b) shall cease and the application thereof shall revert to the
status quo ante.
92. Game Footage and Still
Photos

The parties agree to discuss in good faith the provision of an
agreed upon amount of NHL footage containing NHL Players to
the NHLPA at no charge for non-commercial, editorial, and
internal uses.

93. Transition Rules

Transition rules per Attachment M.
The parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding the
2020/21 calendar and schedule.

94. Critical Dates Calendar

Adjusted Critical Dates Calendar for 2020 per Attachment N.

95. Phase 2 Protocol
(previously agreed to)

See Attachment O.

96. Phase 3 Protocol

See Attachment P.

97. Phase 4 Protocol

See Attachment Q.

98. Dispute Settlements

Disputes concerning (i) the Toronto Maple Leafs broadcast rights
agreement and (ii) various Clubs interpretation and application
of the Pittsburgh non-resident sports facility usage fee have
been settled pursuant to agreements between the Parties. See
Attachments R and S.

Process for Drafting the Amended CBA
Upon ratification of the terms hereof by each of the parties, the process of incorporating the terms of
the MOU into the full text of the CBA shall be strictly limited, as set forth herein. Beginning on a date
as agreed between the NHL and NHLPA, and unless otherwise agreed to, the parties shall meet on an
ongoing basis for the purpose incorporating the terms of the MOU into the full text of the CBA
(“Drafting Period”). The parties will endeavor to work as expeditiously as possible. The Drafting Period
Page 32 of 71

shall be for the sole purpose of attempting to reach agreement on full text CBA language where the
language in the MOU is insufficient for that purpose. Conversely, where the language in this MOU is
sufficiently detailed to adequately constitute full text CBA language, no alteration of the MOU
language shall be required or permitted, except on mutual consent, and such language shall be
incorporated as full text into the CBA. Until replaced by agreement on formal CBA language, the
provisions of this MOU shall be binding and enforceable to the same extent as if formally incorporated
into the CBA.

National Hockey League

National Hockey League Players’ Association

By:

By:

Name:

Name:

Title:

Title:

Dated:

Dated:

Page 33 of 71

ATTACHMENT A
CBA 23.[ ] Wellness Services
(a) The Club shall be responsible for the reasonable cost of appropriate recovery and regeneration
services for Players who are party to an SPC, which are outside the scope of Section 34.7 of the CBA
(“Wellness Services”), including where such services come from a third-party provider, subject to the
provisions of this Section 23.[ ].
(b) Determinations whether the desired services are pursuant to Section 34.7 or 23.[ ](a) shall be made
by the Club’s Medical Director.
(c) Subject to 23. [ ] (b), all Wellness Services obtained pursuant to this Section 23.[ ] shall be provided
by licensed and certified professionals in the relevant practice area, whose licensure, if applicable, is
maintained in good standing. Wellness Service professionals include physiotherapists, athletic
therapists, chiropractors, massage therapists, acupuncturists, and ART/MAT therapists.
(d) From the commencement of the Club’s Training Camp to the conclusion of the Club’s playing
season (“In-Season”), all Wellness Services obtained pursuant to this Section 23.[ ] shall be from the
Club so long as the Club employs or otherwise provides personnel who are reasonably available to
provide the desired Wellness Services. If the Club does not employ such personnel In-Season or its
personnel are not reasonably available, a Player may seek such Wellness Services from a third-party
provider upon prior written approval by the Club Medical Director, such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld.
(e) From the conclusion of the Club’s playing season to the start of Training Camp, a Player may obtain
Wellness Services pursuant to this Section 23.[ ] from a third-party provider upon prior written
approval by the Club Medical Director, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
(f) Each Player shall sign an authorization providing for the transmission of records from third-party
providers providing Wellness Services to the Player pursuant to this Section 23.[ ], to Club Medical
Personnel.
(g) Nothing in subsections (a) – (f) above limits or restricts a Player in any way (including, but not
limited to, requiring Club approval) from obtaining Wellness Services at his own expense.

Page 34 of 71

ATTACHMENT B
SPC paragraph 5 amended to include a new subparagraph 5 (p) as follows:
(p)
Notwithstanding the time limits for the provision of notice and for obtaining a second
opinion set out in subparagraph 5 (e), in the event that the Player wishes to seek a second opinion in
respect of the Club Physician’s determination regarding the Player’s fitness or unfitness to play arising
out of an end of season exit examination, he shall provide the notice described in that subparagraph by
the earlier of 5:00 pm New York time of the twenty-eighth day after receipt of the electronic notice or
5:00 pm New York time on June 15 provided that in no event may the period between the receipt of
the electronic notice and the deadline for filing the request be less than seven (7) days. The Player
shall provide the Club with the second opinion by no later than 5:00 pm New York time on the third
day after the deadline for the provision of notice (or later only upon the showing of good
cause). During the period between the Exit Exam and a second opinion request, the Player shall report
to the General Manager, Club Physician or training staff any injury or condition, or exacerbation of an
existing injury or condition that is potentially disabling.

SPC paragraph 5 amended to include a new subparagraph 5(a)(i) as follows:
(i)
The rights and obligations set out in Subparagraph 5 (a) have application both
during the playing season and during the off-season, except that during the off-season, the Player shall
be obligated to report to his General Manager, Club Physician or training staff when the Player
becomes aware of an injury or condition that could preclude his attendance at training camp in good
physical condition. Further, during the off-season, the Club may require the Player’s attendance at an
examination by the Club Physician only if necessary for the assessment or treatment of any such injury
or condition or for the determination of the Player’s fitness to play in relation to a pending contractual
issue (e.g., eligibility for buy out, trade).

Page 35 of 71

ATTACHMENT C
Replace CBA §34.4(a) in its entirety with the following:
(a) A Player may seek a second medical opinion regarding a diagnosis made by a team physician or a
course of treatment (including the timing thereof) prescribed by a team physician ("Second Medical
Opinion") from a list of medical specialists with outstanding reputations and experience in their area of
expertise as may be evidenced by: (i) a strong publication, presentation and/or lecture record in the
relevant area of expertise, (ii) a record of superior performance and knowledge in his or her principal
area of clinical practice, or (iii) substantial experience in the provision of clinical care to elite athletes,
as agreed upon by the Joint H & S Committee ("Second Medical Opinion List"). The medical specialists
on the Second Medical Opinion List (the "Second Medical Opinion Physician(s)") shall be listed by
specialty and by geographic region.
The Joint H & S Committee shall review and update the Second Medical Opinion List on an annual
basis, and shall also have the ability to remove any Second Medical Opinion Physician(s) from the
Second Medical Opinion List at any time if there exists a serious basis for so doing, including credible
concerns regarding a Second Medical Opinion Physician's integrity, bias, motivation, professionalism,
conflict of interest, qualifications, or a repeated inability to promptly provide a verbal and written
report to the Player and to the Player’s NHL Club.
If the Joint H&S Committee is unable to agree upon the selection to or removal of a Physician from the
Second Medical Opinion List, the matter shall be referred to the Panel of Experts (“POE”) as described
in Subsection 34.9 (g), for review and recommendation. The POE shall issue a written recommendation
(“the POE Recommendation”) to the Joint H & S Committee, as to whether or not a Physician should be
selected to or removed from the Second Medical Opinion List within 60 days of the date of referral.
The Joint H & S Committee shall conduct a vote whether to accept or to reject the POE
Recommendation within 30 days of its issuance. Unless a majority of the Members of the Joint H & S
Committee vote to reject the POE Recommendation, the POE Recommendation shall constitute the
final and binding determination of the Joint H & S Committee.

Page 36 of 71

ATTACHMENT D
Replace in its entirety the current CBA Subsection 34.1 (c) with the following:
The NHLPA, acting on a Player’s behalf, may submit a Complaint regarding a violation of the standard
of care as set out in CBA Subsections 34.1 (a) and (b) to the JHSC for determination. The determination
of any such complaint shall be in accordance with the provisions set out in the Procedures Governing
Standard of Care Complaints, annexed hereto to as Exhibit XX.
Exhibit XX PROCEDURES GOVERNING STANDARD OF CARE COMPLAINTS
1. The Complaint and Answer
a. A Complaint may be initiated by the NHLPA on behalf of a Player regarding a violation of the
standard of care as set out in CBA Subsections 34.1 (a) and (b) (hereinafter “standard of
care”) by filing a written Complaint as described herein.
b. The Complaint must be served within sixty (60) days from the date of the incident or event
upon which the Complaint is based, or within sixty (60) days from the date on which the facts
of the matter became known or reasonably should have been known to the Player, whichever
is later.
c. The Complaint shall be served upon the person and/or Club that the NHLPA alleges has
violated the standard of care and Legal Department of the NHL.
d. The Complaint will identify the party against whom the Complaint is made, a brief statement
setting out the basis upon which the allegation of a violation of the standard of care is being
brought, the material facts upon which the Complaint is based, and the remedy that is
sought.
e. The party served with the Complaint will Answer in writing within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the Complaint. The Answer will include a response to each of the allegations made in the
Complaint.
2. Submission to the Panel of Experts
a. Upon receipt of the Answer, the parties will refer the matter to the Panel of Experts (“POE”)
described in CBA Subsection 34.9 (g), and shall promptly provide the POE with the Complaint
and the Answer. The Parties, along with the POE, will set a hearing date.
b. The parties shall exchange Disclosure Statements in the manner described below, which
Disclosure Statements shall not be shared with the POE. The party bearing the burden of
presenting its case first shall submit to the other party a Disclosure Statement at least fortyfive (45) days before the scheduled date of the hearing; the responding party will provide to
the other party a responsive statement at least twenty-five (25) days before the scheduled
date of the hearing. Disclosure Statements shall contain the following information:
Page 37 of 71

(a) statement of the issue(s);
(b) factual background;
(c) theory of the case;
(d) witness(es) name(s); and
(e) documents the party intends to rely on or submit as exhibits, which documents will
be attached to the Disclosure Statement.
c. Disclosure Statements are to be provided with the purpose and intent of fully apprising the
other party of the disclosing party's case to avoid surprise. In the event an issue arises as to
the sufficiency of a party's Disclosure Statement, the Disclosure Statements may be provided
to the POE in connection with the resolution of that issue, if both parties agree. Disclosure
Statements shall not preclude either party from raising additional arguments or additional,
later discovered facts in any subsequent pre-hearing Disclosure Statement or POE hearing.
d. It is intended that witnesses appear at the POE hearing. The parties shall each use their best
efforts to require witnesses to appear at the scheduled hearing. If a witness is unavailable,
the party offering the witness shall notify the other party as soon as the unavailability of the
witness is known. If the parties agree, the witness may testify by video conference or by
telephone. If the parties do not agree, a hearing date shall be selected for the purpose of
taking the witness' testimony.
e. The hearing location will be determined by the parties and the POE, together.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree to hold hearings in the geographic location
of the Complainant Player if he is going to testify as a witness at the hearing, if necessary to
accommodate his NHL team's playing season schedule.
f. If at any time prior to the commencement of the hearing or before the issuance of the POE’s
Opinion, the Chair of the POE considers that the assistance or advice of independent counsel
is required on a question of law or procedure that is relevant to the conduct of the hearing,
including attendance at the hearing in order to assist in procedural matters, the Chair will be
permitted to retain and consult with counsel of his or her choice for that purpose. Any
associated legal costs will be shared equally by the parties.
g. Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the POE will issue a written opinion
(“POE Opinion") as to whether there was a violation of the standard of care set out in CBA
Section 34.1. The POE Opinion shall set out the POE’s determination as to whether the
standard of care has been violated and provide its reasons for such determination. The POE
Opinion shall identify any documents or witnesses relied upon in the POE’s determination.
The POE Opinion shall not include a remedy; rather, it must only set out whether a violation
occurred.
h. The POE Opinion as to whether a violation occurred shall be final, binding, and shall not be
subject to arbitral or judicial review.

Page 38 of 71

3. Submission to the Impartial Arbitrator for Remedy
a. If the POE’s Opinion was that the standard of care was violated, the POE Opinion shall be
provided to the Impartial Arbitrator, who shall determine the appropriate Remedy for such
violation, including the issuance of a make whole Remedy if appropriate. The Impartial
Arbitrator shall be provided a copy of the POE Opinion and the POE Record, which shall
include any transcripts, documents or exhibits considered by the POE.
b. If the Impartial Arbitrator considers that the Record is insufficient for the purpose of the
issuance of a Remedy, he may request that parties submit such affidavit or other
documentary evidence and/or written submissions as he or she considers appropriate. The
Impartial Arbitrator shall not hold a hearing.
c. The Impartial Arbitrator shall issue the Remedy, in writing, and provide it to the parties,
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the POE Opinion or, if additional evidence or submissions
were received, within thirty days of their receipt. The Impartial Arbitrator’s determination of
a Remedy shall be based solely on the information contained in the POE opinion, the POE
Record and any additional evidence and submissions received from the Parties. The Impartial
Arbitrator shall not draft a written opinion with his or her explanation of the Remedy; his or
her determination shall be limited to the nature of the Remedy itself.
d. The Impartial Arbitrator’s Remedy shall be final, binding, and not subject to judicial review.

Page 39 of 71

Attachment E
Insert as New CBA Subsection 34.9 (g)
The NHL and the NHLPA shall establish a Panel of Experts (“the POE”) for the purposes of providing
recommendations and opinions in matters governed by the provisions of Sections 34.1(c) and 34.4(a),
and who may be delegated certain additional responsibilities only where and as mutually agreed upon
by the NHL and NHLPA.
Composition of the POE
i.

The POE will be a standing body composed of three physicians with substantial experience in
sports medicine, and who shall have successfully completed a fellowship in Sports Medicine or
have other sports medicine qualifications as the parties may agree. The NHL and the NHLPA
shall each independently select one physician, who together shall be delegated to select the
third physician. The third physician shall serve as the chair of the POE. The members of the
POE may not be presently employed or retained by the NHL, NHLPA, or any Club, and may not
serve as a current member of the JHSC or as a SMOP.

ii.

Physicians appointed by the NHL and the NHLPA and the chair of the POE will serve for a two
(2) year term commencing on the date of the appointment of the chair of the POE. The
independently appointed physicians may by written notice be removed by the party that
appointed them at any time after the date of their appointment provided, however, that they
remain authorized to complete any pending matter before them. The Chair can be reappointed for additional two (2) year terms by the agreement of the NHL and NHLPA. If the
NHL and NHLPA fail to re-appoint the chair, the independently appointed physicians shall
appoint a new Chair.

Page 40 of 71

ATTACHMENT F

Page 41 of 71

Second Opinion Fact Sheet
Your Right to a Second Opinion
•

You have the right to get a second opinion regarding any diagnosis by your Club Doctor or any treatment
plan that has been prescribed (e.g., surgery, medication, physiotherapy, etc.). You don’t need to justify
or explain to your Club why you want a second opinion, and you can obtain a second opinion at any
time. You just have to ask.

•

The League and the NHLPA have agreed on a list of medical specialists who can perform second medical
opinions. If you select one of the doctors on the pre-approved list, the Club is required to pay the cost of
the second opinion, including your travel expenses. The Club will also pay for the costs of a second
opinion if you and the Club agree, in advance, to a doctor even if they are not on the pre-approved list.

•

If you want to get a “confidential” second opinion and not tell the Club about it, you can do so - but your
Club will not be responsible to pay for that second opinion.

•

Whether or not the Club pays for the second opinion, your Club is required to give it serious
consideration, although it is not binding on the Club. If the Club Doctor disagrees with your second
opinion doctor, the dispute can be referred to a third, independent, doctor for their opinion. The Club is
required to pay for the independent doctor’s opinion.

The Right to a Surgeon of your Choice
•

If you require surgery, you have the right to have the surgery performed by a surgeon of your choice on
the pre-approved list, rather than by a doctor chosen by your Club.

•

Your Club is required to pay for the reasonable expenses of the surgery, including your transportation
and hotel costs. Surgery by a doctor of your choice who is not on the list will be paid by the Club if it
agrees to them in advance.

You are encouraged to seek a second opinion if you have any questions concerning your Club Doctor’s diagnosis
and any prescribed treatment of your condition, and in all cases where surgery has been prescribed or denied.
It’s not a question of trust – it’s a question of being smart.
You or your agent should contact Dr. John Rizos, the NHLPA’s medical director to arrange for a confidential
consultation. Dr. Rizos can be reached at jrizos@nhlpa.com and at (905) 601-3777.

Page 42 of 71

ATTACHMENT G
CBA §23.10 replaced in its entirety with the below:
23.10 At the conclusion of each season, the Club shall conduct an exit physical on each Player on the
NHL Roster as of that date. The Club shall provide each Player with a complete copy of his medical
records at the time of his annual exit physical (to the extent the Club maintains physical possession of
the Player's medical records; otherwise the Club's physician will provide the Player with a complete
copy of his medical records upon the Player's direction to do so). The exit physical shall document all
injuries that the Player incurred and for which he received treatment in the course of his employment
as a hockey Player under his SPC during that League Year that may require future medical or dental
treatment either in the near future or post-career. The Club shall remain responsible for the payment
of medical and dental costs associated with treatment of such hockey-related injuries at such future
date. In the event that the exit physical failed to document an injury that the Player incurred and for
which he received treatment in the course of his employment as a hockey Player under his SPC during
that League Year, and for which he may require treatment either in the near future or post-career, the
Club shall still be obliged to pay the medical and dental costs associated with the treatment of such
injury. The Club shall also be responsible for the payment of reasonable incidental expenses associated
with treatment of all such hockey-related injuries described in this Section, provided that those
incidental expenses are approved in advance by the Club (unless urgent or unforeseeable
circumstances prevent such advance approval), and provided further that such approval by the Club is
not to be unreasonably withheld.

Page 43 of 71

ATTACHMENT H
Comprehensive Medical Evaluation and Assessment Upon Retirement
The parties agree to implement a Program for Players pursuant to which they will have the right to
elect to receive a comprehensive medical evaluation upon retirement. The anticipated features of the
Program (the specifics of which are subject to final agreement by the parties) include the following:
Under the Program, Players who retire from the NHL will be entitled to a medical examination and
assessment by the Independent Physician (a “Retirement Examination”), who is a primary care sports
medicine practitioner with substantial experience in the diagnosis and treatment of sports injuries and
related conditions. The Independent Physician performing the Retirement Examination will be one
from a panel of Independent Physicians selected by the parties. Players must have played at least 160
Games in the NHL to be entitled to a Retirement Examination, which must be requested within a
defined period of time (to be negotiated) following the expiration of their last SPC in the NHL.
The Independent Physician conducting the Retirement Examination will review the Player’s medical
files and any other medical information provided by the Player, obtain a standard history, and then
conduct an examination that will include, at a minimum: (i) internal medicine evaluation; (ii)
neurological evaluation; (iii) behavioral/mental health screening; (iv) musculoskeletal evaluation; and
(v) cardiovascular evaluation. Upon the conclusion of the Retirement Examination, the Independent
Physician will issue a report that: (i) documents the then current health status of the Player; (ii)
includes a recommended individualized post-retirement Program for treatment of the Player’s health
issues; and (iii) includes introductions to such health care practitioners as the Independent Physician
considers appropriate.
The costs of the Retirement Examination of Players by the Independent Physician, including any further
tests or examinations performed or ordered by the Independent Physician to complete their
assessment of the health status of the Player would be borne by the NHL. The costs of any referrals for
treatment or medical care will be covered, as appropriate, by the Player’s health insurance (retired
Player coverage if elected under the NHL Players’ Health Fund, or the Players’ other personal health
insurance), or, where such insurance is not available, and if such referred treatment is a Qualified
Treatment as may be agreed to by the parties, by some other funding source to be negotiated by the
parties.

Page 44 of 71

ATTACHMENT I
NHL TRAINING CAMP – AMATEUR TRY-OUT AGREEMENT
Date: ________________________
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:

______________________________
hereinafter called the “Player”

---AND--______________________________
hereinafter called the “Club”
In consideration of the agreement by the Club to pay the reasonable round-trip travel expenses from
his Address below (or whatever location the Player shall designate by notice in writing to the Club) to
the Club’s Training Camp (or whatever location the Club shall designate by notice in writing to the
Player), as well as accommodations, per diem and meals, the Player agrees to present himself, when
called upon to do so, at any location designated by the Club, for the purposes of demonstrating his
ability and qualifications as a hockey player.
The Club shall be responsible for the medical and dental costs associated with the treatment of any
hockey-related injury that occurred during the term of this agreement while with the Club, which had
been reported to the Club and is, or should have been, documented in the Player's medical files. The
Club shall also provide an insurance benefit in the amount of $50,000 for permanent total disability
arising out of any such hockey-related injury (subject to policy terms, conditions and exclusions).
This agreement shall expire on October 21 next after the date hereof (“Expiration Date”). The Club
shall retain the exclusive right of negotiation for the services of the Player against all other NHL Clubs
until the Expiration Date, after which the Player shall be unconditionally released and removed from
the Club’s Reserve List.
__________________________________
SIGNATURE OF PLAYER

Page 45 of 71

WITNESSES
______________________________

___________________________________
ADDRESS

______________________________

___________________________________
CITY
___________________________________
NAME OF CLUB
PER: ______________________________
SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER
For Players Only
(PLEASE PRINT)

FULL NAME ____________________

HEIGHT __________ WEIGHT _________

PLACE OF BIRTH ________________

POSITION __________________________

DATE OF BIRTH _________________

SHOOTS (R/L) _______________________

(READ INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION AND REGISTRATION BELOW)

Page 46 of 71

NHL TRAINING CAMP – PRO TRY-OUT AGREEMENT
Date: ________________________
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:

______________________________
hereinafter called the “Player”

---AND--______________________________
hereinafter called the “Club”
In consideration of the agreement by the Club to pay the reasonable round-trip travel expenses from
his Address below (or whatever location the Player shall designate by notice in writing to the Club), to
the Club’s Training Camp (or whatever location the Club shall designate by notice in writing to the
Player), as well as accommodations, per diem and meals, the Player agrees to present himself, when
called upon to do so, at any location designated by the Club, for the purposes of demonstrating his
ability and qualifications as a hockey player.
The Club shall be responsible for the medical and dental costs associated with the treatment of any
hockey-related injury that occurred during the term of this agreement while with the Club, which had
been reported to the Club and is, or should have been, documented in the Player's medical files. The
Club shall also provide an insurance benefit in the amount of $50,000 for permanent total disability
arising out of any such hockey-related injury (subject to policy terms, conditions and exclusions).
This agreement shall terminate on the day before the commencement of the NHL Regular Season
unless terminated earlier upon the Player entering into an SPC with the Club or a contract with any
other professional hockey team. This agreement may also be terminated by the Club by providing
written notice to the Player of its intention to terminate same.
This agreement shall not confer on the Club property or Reserve List rights of any kind. For clarity, the
Player may sign a contract with any professional hockey team other than the Club at any time prior to
the expiration of this agreement without the Club’s consent.

__________________________________
SIGNATURE OF PLAYER
WITNESSES

Page 47 of 71

______________________________

___________________________________
ADDRESS

______________________________

___________________________________
CITY
___________________________________
NAME OF CLUB
PER: ______________________________
SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER
For Players Only
(PLEASE PRINT)

FULL NAME ____________________

HEIGHT __________ WEIGHT _________

PLACE OF BIRTH ________________

POSITION __________________________

DATE OF BIRTH _________________

SHOOTS (R/L) _______________________

(READ INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION AND REGISTRATION BELOW)

Page 48 of 71

ATTACHMENT J
Add new Section 16.5(e) as follows: 16.5 Monthly Schedules; Restricted Days; Bye-Week
*
*
*
(e) In each League Year in which an All-Star Game is scheduled, the NHL will build into each Club’s
Regular Season schedule a “break” of not less than eight (8) days between scheduled NHL Regular
Season Games during the period beginning five (5) days before the NHL All-Star Game Weekend and
ending five (5) days after the NHL All-Star Game Weekend (the “Break”), which shall be inclusive of the
“All-Star break” described above in Section 16.5(c).
(i) To the extent a Club’s last game before its Break is a road game, Players will have no
obligation to accompany the team back to its home city and may choose instead to arrange
their own travel to their next destination.
(ii) Each day of the Break shall be a day off for all purposes, except to the extent that the
Players selected to participate in the All-Star Game Weekend events may have obligations
during that period. A Club that commences its Break preceding All-Star Game Weekend may
schedule its first post-Break practice to begin no earlier than 2:00 p.m. local time on the
first day following the All-Star break, and a Club that commences its Break following the AllStar Game Weekend may schedule its first post Break practice to begin no earlier than 2:00
p.m. local time on the fifth day following the All-Star break. Subject to prior consultation
with their Club to the extent reasonably practicable, Players shall be excused from the first
post-Break practice if unforeseen travel delays or other compelling circumstances prevent
them from participating. Further, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary elsewhere
in the CBA, any Player who participates in the All-Star Game Weekend events will be
excused, at his option, from attending the first post-Break practice.
(iii) To the extent that a Club’s first post-Break game is scheduled to take place on the road,
such Club may schedule its team transportation to the game city at a reasonable departure
time on the day before the game in order to accommodate its holding a practice in the
game city no earlier than 2:00 p.m. local time that day. Players will have no obligation to
make use of the team transportation and may choose instead to arrange their own
transportation to meet the team in the game city in time for the 2:00 p.m. (or later) local
time scheduled practice.
(iv) Except with respect to that portion of the Break that corresponds with the All-Star break,
the Break shall not reduce or otherwise alter the number of days off which Players are
entitled under CBA Section 16.5(a). For clarity, a Club may utilize each day of the All-Star
break towards fulfilling its obligation under CBA Section 16.5(a) to provide Players with at
least four (4) days off during the month in which the All-Star Game Weekend is scheduled,
but it may not count or credit any other day of its Break towards fulfilling such obligation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the NHL notifies the NHLPA by no later than the
September 15 preceding the All-Star Game Weekend that the provision of a fourth day off
during the month in which the All-Star Game Weekend is scheduled is impossible or
Page 49 of 71

impracticable, the NHLPA will consider in good faith NHL proposals to modify the days off
schedule for that Club. The NHLPA agrees that, at a minimum, it will offer similar relief to
the relief offered to Clubs historically in cases of bona fide scheduling difficulties.
(v) A Player who is Loaned by his NHL Club after 11:59 p.m. local time on the date of the Club’s
final game before its Break will not be obligated to report to the team to which he has been
Loaned prior to 10:00 a.m. local time on the 9th day following the commencement of his
NHL Club’s Break.
*

*

*

Replacement of CBA Subsection 16.15 with the following:
16.15 All-Star Game
(a) The All-Star Game, including all All-Star Game Weekend events and activities in which Players will
be asked to participate, will employ a format developed by the NHL in consultation with the
NHLPA. Prior to effectuating any material changes in the All-Star Weekend format, the NHL will
seek the consent of the NHLPA, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The parties
agree that the NHLPA may reasonably withhold its consent when, without limitation, proposed AllStar format changes result in: (i) a material change in the overall number of Players expected to
participate in All-Star Weekend events; (ii) a material change in the overall time commitment
required for Player participation; or (iii) a material change in the financial terms (or other benefits)
associated with Player participation. The NHLPA may also reasonably withhold its consent where
the change in All-Star format contemplates Player participation in events that give rise to a bona
fide health and safety concern.
(b) The Club must provide Business Class air travel to and from the All-Star host city to any Player
selected to play in the All-Star Game (or its equivalent), or to any Player who is otherwise
requested by the League to participate in an All-Star Weekend-related event. Players shall also
have the option to invite their Spouse (or Living Companion) to All-Star Weekend, as well as up to
four (4) immediate family members (e.g., the Player’s parents, grandparents, siblings, and/or
children), with airfare to be paid at the Club’s expense (Business Class travel for Spouse (or Living
Companion) and Economy Class travel for immediate family members).
(c) There shall be no All-Star Game in any League Year in which the NHL and NHLPA agree to
participate in an international tournament or other event, including but not limited to the Winter
Olympics.

Page 50 of 71

ATTACHMENT K
ARTICLE 13.12 BENEFITS REPORTING FORM
Club:
Player

______________________________
Loan/
Recall

Transaction
Date

Hotel Name

Month:
Room Type
(e.g. Single,
1BR+kitchen,
2BR+ kitchen)

______________________________
Check in
Date

Check out
date

Rental Car
Provided
(Y/N)

Total Per
Diem
Amount Paid

Pursuant to CBA §13.12(a), the “Player shall be allowed to keep his hotel room at Club’s expense while the Club is traveling on the road during the
said 28-day period (or 56-day period if Section 13.12(d) applies).”

Page 51 of 71

ATTACHMENT L
15.11 No Conditioning Camp. Other than the Conditioning Camp described in Section 15.10 above, a
Club is prohibited from organizing or holding any mandatory or voluntary camp in the off-season for
any Players.
(a) Permissible Off-Season Activities. Clubs are permitted to keep their arena/training/practice
facilities open -- both for on-ice and off-ice (dry land and weight room) training -- and to allow the
Club’s Players to use those facilities at their own discretion on a voluntary, Player-initiated basis only.
Clubs and/or Club Strength and Conditioning Coach(es) are permitted to post regular hours when they
will be at the arena/training/practice facility, and to provide services to Players while at the facility, so
long as the Player is coming to the facility on his own initiative. However, Players and Club Strength
and Conditioning Coaches are not permitted to schedule advance appointments or “special hours” for
Players to workout at the Club’s arena/training/practice facility.
“Player-only” sessions on the ice, including “Captain’s Skates” and group Player skates are also
permissible.
Clubs are permitted to allow Players from other teams to use their arena/training/practice facility(ies),
and may provide skate sharpening and other equipment-related services to such Players at their
discretion. No Club is required to open its arena/training/practice facility(ies) to non-Club members.
(b) Prohibited Off-Season Activities. Clubs are not permitted to have Club Coaching or Hockey
Operations personnel (e.g., coaches, skating instructors, other Club employees, contracted service
providers, etc.) participate in any on-ice sessions with Players.
Clubs are not permitted to request or encourage Players to come to the Club’s home city during the
off-season to utilize the Club’s arena/training/practice facility(ies) and/or to train with Club Coaching
or Hockey Operations personnel.
Clubs are not permitted to pay for Players’ travel costs, per diems or housing for Players who choose to
stay in or come to the Club’s home city during the off-season to utilize the Club’s
arena/training/practice facility(ies) and/or to train with Club Coaching or Hockey Operations personnel.
In all instances, if Players choose to stay in or return to the Club’s home city to train over the summer,
it must be on a Player-initiated basis only, and all associated costs must be borne by the Player.
Clubs are not permitted to use electronic or computerized programs to track or monitor a Player’s offseason activity or conditioning.
Clubs are not permitted to facilitate or pay for Players to receive training/conditioning services during
the off-season from: (i) Club Strength and Conditioning Coaches who may own separate businesses
and provide off-site/off-season services (even where Players may want to utilize such services during

Page 52 of 71

the off-season); or (ii) third-party services providers that may provide training and conditioning
services to Players inside or outside of the Club’s home city (e.g., Gary Roberts, Adam Oates, etc.)
(c) Monitoring and Enforcement. The NHL and the NHLPA agree to establish effective monitoring
and enforcement mechanisms to ensure each Club’s compliance with the requirements in this Section
15.11, so as to ensure a level playing surface as among all Clubs in the League and the competitive
integrity of NHL competition, among other things. These provisions will therefore be monitored
(including by unannounced “spot checks” during the course of the off-season) and strictly enforced.
Violations of these provisions will lead to significant penalties, including Club fines in an amount not
less than $50,000 and individual fines in an amount not less than $10,000, as well as the potential
forfeiture of Club Draft Picks, as determined to be appropriate by the Commissioner or his designee, in
consultation with the Executive Director of the NHLPA.

Page 53 of 71

ATTACHMENT M
TRANSITION RULES
Generally
• Except where expressly stated, nothing in these transition rules ("Transition Rules") shall affect or
diminish from any rights or obligations of the parties under the 2013 Collective Bargaining Agreement
("CBA"). Provided, however, that in the event that any item was unintentionally omitted from these
Transition Rules, or in instances in which the application of these rules is anomalous and clearly
unintended by the parties, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to reach agreement on a
means of addressing that issue consistent with the principles in these Transition Rules.
Rounding
• Fractional games/days/statistics are rounded up if .50 or greater (before rounding) and are rounded
down if less than .50 (before rounding).
No Pro-Ration & Pro-Ration
• Where applicable, the pro-ration factor shall be [70/82].
• The following items shall be pro-rated in the manner set out below:
o ELS Slides: 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall be pro-rated based on [70/82] for Players in the
NHL as of 5:00 p.m. New York time on March 16, 2020 (the “Roster Freeze”) who have played at
least one (1) NHL Regular Season game in the 2019-20 season (“Roster Freeze Player(s)”). If a
Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, the 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall not be prorated.
▪ For example, if a Player had 9 NHL GP and was a Roster Freeze Player and did not play
any more NHL Games in 2019-20, his contract would not slide. If a Player has 9 NHL GP
and is not a Roster Freeze Player and did not play any more NHL Games in 2019-20, his
contract would slide. If, however, this Player is subsequently Recalled and plays in his
10th NHL Game during the (i) Qualifying Round or (ii) any Playoff Round following the
Qualifying Round (“Playoff Round” or “Round of 16”), his contract would not slide.
o Accrued Season: 30/40 thresholds shall be pro-rated by a factor of [70/82] if the Player was a
Roster Freeze Player. If a Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, the 30/40 threshold shall not be
pro-rated.
o Group 2:
▪ For 18/19 year olds, same as ELS Slides. i.e. 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall be prorated based on [70/82] for Roster Freeze Players. If a Player was not a Roster Freeze
Player, the 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall not be pro-rated.
▪ For 20+ year olds, 10 Professional Games threshold shall be pro-rated by a factor of
[70/82].
o Group 6:
▪ If a Player was a Roster Freeze Player, 28/80 NHL Games Played thresholds shall be prorated in the following manner:
• Player with 3 seasons under NHL SPC (including 2019-20): ((82+82+70)/246)*(28
or 80 as the case may be)
• Player with 4 seasons under NHL SPC (including 2019-20):
((82+82+82+70))/328)*(28 or 80 as the case may be)

Page 54 of 71

•

o

o

o

Player with 5 or more seasons under NHL SPC (including 2019-20) shall follow
the same pattern in this section.
• 11 Professional Games Played threshold for 18/19 year olds for 2019-20 prorated by a factor of [70/82]
▪ If a Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, there shall be no pro-ration of the 28/80 NHL
Games Played thresholds.
Qualifying Offers:
▪ If a Player was a Roster Freeze Player, the 60 & 180 NHL Games Played thresholds for a
One-Way Qualifying Offer shall be pro-rated in the following manner:
• 2019-20: 70/82*60 & [((82+82+70)/246)*180]
• 2020-21: 60 & [((82+82+70)/246)*180]
• 2021-22: 60 & [((82+82+70))/246)*180]
▪ For the purpose of determining whether a Qualifying Offer must be One-Way, a Waiver
clearance on or after March 13, 2020 shall not count as a Waiver clearance for the
purposes of s. 10.2(a)(iii)
▪ If a Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, there shall be no pro-ration of the 60 & 180
NHL Games Played thresholds.
Salary Arbitration Eligibility
▪ For 18/19 year olds, same as ELS Slides. i.e. 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall be prorated based on [70/82] for Roster Freeze Players. If a Player was not a Roster Freeze
Player, the 10 NHL Games Played threshold shall not be pro-rated.
▪ For 20+ year olds, 10 Professional Games threshold shall be pro-rated by a factor of
[70/82].
Waiver Exemption:
▪ If a Player was a Roster Freeze Player, CBA Section 13.4 NHL Games Played thresholds
shall be revised based on the following formula and in the following manner:
((((Years Exempt-1)*82+70))/(Years Exempt*82)) * [threshold]

Age
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

Goalies
Skaters
Yrs Exempt NHL Games Yrs Exempt NHL Games
6
78
5
155
5
78
4
154
4
77
3
152
4
58
3
76
4
58
3
67
3
57
3
57
2
56
2
56

Notwithstanding the pro-ration calculations above, any Player who would become
waiver eligible, or is within three (3) NHL Games of becoming waiver eligible, by virtue
of this pro-ration shall instead be required to play in three (3) additional NHL Games
before being waiver eligible under Section 13.4, provided however, that in no case will a
Player be required to play in more NHL Games to become waiver eligible than he
otherwise would have been required to play in the absence of this pro-ration rule.
Any 18 or 19 year old Player who does not play in the requisite number of NHL Games (9
for a Roster Freeze Player or 11 for a Player that is not a Roster Freeze Player) during the
Page 55 of 71

2019-20 season and did not play in 11 or more NHL games in any prior season shall not
have the NHL Games Played thresholds for Waiver Exemptions pro-rated pursuant to
the above rule.
The NHL and NHLPA shall review every Player who is affected by this transition rule for
purposes of agreeing upon the new threshold for waiver eligibility, in accordance with
the formulas set forth herein, for each such Player, prior to the commencement of the
Qualifying Round Games (as defined below).
•

o

o

o

o

o

If a Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, there shall be no pro-ration of these Section
13.4 thresholds.

Waivers: For 18/19 year olds, same principle as ELS Slides. I.e. 11 NHL Games Played threshold
shall be pro-rated based on [70/82] for Roster Freeze Players. If a Player was not a Roster
Freeze Player, the 11 NHL Games Played threshold shall not be pro-rated.
Professional Games thresholds for 20+ year olds: Professional Games thresholds shall be prorated by a factor of [70/82]. Games played outside the NHL on a Loan shall count as
Professional Games in year credit calculations.
Article 15: All NHL Games Played thresholds in Article 15 shall be pro-rated based on [70/82] for
Roster Freeze Players. Such pro-ration shall also be applied to the 40 NHL Games “with the
same Club” threshold under Section 15.7(a)(ii), however it will not be applied to the 160 NHL
Games threshold under Section 15.7 (a)(i).If a Player was not a Roster Freeze Player, NHL Games
Played and/or games “with the same Club” thresholds in Article 15 shall not be pro-rated. Days
on Roster in Section 15.6 shall not be pro-rated. “Games credit” for purposes of the Pension
Plan shall be provided for as described below.
Eligibility for Performance Bonuses for Injured Veteran Players (400+ Pension Games/100+ Days
on IR - (Section 50.2(b)(i)(C)(2)(iii))): Days on IR portion will not be pro-rated. Pension Games
portion will be pro-rated in the manner set out below.
There will be no pro-ration of the Junior (“J”) designation on Reserve List (50 man limit): 11 NHL
Games Played (Article 1).

Player Opt Out of Resumption of 2019-2020 Season
• It is anticipated that Players on NHL Clubs taking part in the resumption of the 2019-20 Season, other
than those with health concerns related to a risk of infection or complications from infection or those
with family members who are similarly at risk, will participate in the resumption of the 2019-2020
Season (Phases 3 and 4). Any Player, however, may individually choose not to participate in Phases 3
and 4 without discipline or penalty, in which event he shall notify his Club in writing (with a copy to NHL
CR and the NHLPA pursuant to Exhibit 3 of the CBA) of his decision by no earlier than the effective date
of this agreement and no later than 5:00 p.m. New York time on the third day following the effective
date of this agreement if choosing not to participate in Phases 3 and 4. In the event that Players opting
out on either a League-wide or per-Club basis materially impacts the integrity of the Return to Play Plan,
the NHL and the NHLPA shall confer and then jointly determine whether to continue with the Return to
Play Plan. In the event the Return to Play Plan is cancelled, the parties will endeavor to replicate their
respective rights and obligations under the CBA, including by determining which provisions of these
Transition Rules may survive as well as revisiting or adjusting the Critical Dates Calendar on an
acceptable basis.

Page 56 of 71

Extension of Expiring Contracts
• Upon agreement of an adjusted Critical Dates Calendar for the remainder of the 2019-20 League Year
and subject to the paragraph immediately below, all SPCs which are scheduled to expire on June 30,
2020 shall be hereby extended, and such expiring SPCs shall remain valid and effective until the day
before the opening of Free Agency as set out in the adjusted Critical Dates Calendar or such other date
as mutually agreed upon by the NHL and NHLPA.
• For Players whose SPCs would otherwise have expired on June 30, 2020, such Player may sign a 2020-21
contract with a team outside North America as long as: 1) his Club is not participating in the resumption
of the 2019-20 Season (“Non-Participating Player”), 2) his Club has ceased participating in the
resumption of the 2019-20 Season (“Eliminated Club Player”), or 3) he has opted out of participating in
the resumption of the 2019-20 Season under this agreement (“Opting Out Player”). A Non-Participating
Player and an Opting Out Player may not sign such a 2020-21 contract until seven (7) days following the
effective date of this agreement. An Eliminated Club Player may not sign such a 2020-21 contract until
two (2) days following their Club’s elimination from competition in the 2019-20 Season. Additionally, an
Opting Out Player who signs such a 2020-21 contract with a team outside North America will be
ineligible to play or contract in the NHL for the 2020-21 Season. The NHL Club shall retain all rights
pursuant to the CBA regarding any pending Restricted Free Agent who signs such contract – e.g.,
Qualifying Offers, salary arbitration, etc.
• No other Players with an NHL SPC that has been extended as set forth above shall be permitted to enter
into a 2020-21 contract outside the NHL prior to the expiration of their NHL SPC, provided, however, in
the event of such an impermissible contract signing, such a Player would be ineligible to play or contract
in the NHL for the 2020-21 Season.
Qualifying Round Games (Play-in/Seeding)
• There will be no cap counting for the Qualifying Round Games and the Round of 16.
• Statistics
o Games in the Qualifying Round (Play-in/Seeding) (“QR Games”) and their resulting statistics will
not be included in the NHL official Regular Season statistics. The NHL official Regular Season
statistics will include all 2019-20 Regular Season statistics for games played through and
including March 11, 2020 (the “pause”).
o QR Games and their resulting statistics will be included within the NHL official 2019-20 Playoff
statistics.
o For purposes of Salary Arbitration, QR Games and their resulting statistics will be treated as
Playoff statistics, but the parties will be permitted to reference the unique nature of these
games and statistics (including the differences in the number of Clubs/Players participating in
these games) versus prior years’ playoff games and statistics.
• QR Games will not count as games on a Club’s Active Roster for purposes of a credit towards an Accrued
Season.
• QR Games will be included for the following purposes, as each of the below use NHL Games for
determining credit and/or thresholds (as pro-rated herein)
o ELS Contract slide provisions (Section 9.1(d))
o Group 6 games played thresholds
o Group 2 professional experience credit
o Determination of One-Way Qualifying Offers (Section 10.2(a)(iii))
o Salary Arbitration professional experience credit
o Waivers – Article 13
o Section 15.4(c) (Exhibition Game “Veterans”)
Page 57 of 71

o

Section 15.7 (Entitlement to Obtain a Residence)

Performance Bonuses
• The Qualifying Round will not be considered a Playoff Round for purposes of Performance Bonuses.
• Bonuses for Qualifying for the Playoffs
o Only payable to the extent a Club progresses into the Round of 16.
• Bonuses for Playoff Rounds
o Bonuses for winning successive Playoff Rounds (i.e. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, Stanley Cup Final) will only be
payable for winning a round in the Round of 16.
• QR Games will be excluded from Games Played bonuses if such bonuses are specific to “Regular Season
Games.”
• QR Games are included in Games Played bonuses if such bonuses are specific to “NHL Games,” provided
they are strictly “Games Played” bonuses (i.e., they are not contingent on Playoff Rounds played/won,
percentage of Playoff games played within Rounds, etc.).
• Exhibit 5 League-paid or Club-Paid Performance Bonuses Based on Rankings
o Will be paid based on actual statistics at the time of the “pause”, provided however, any
minimum games played thresholds (for both the Player and the comparison group) will be prorated by a factor of [70/82].
▪ If a Player meets the minimum games played thresholds only after the threshold is prorated by a factor of [70/82], he shall receive the Bonus amount pro-rated by a factor of
[70/82] for attaining the ranking threshold.
▪ If a Player meets the minimum games played thresholds without the threshold being
pro-rated by a factor of [70/82], he shall receive 100% of the Bonus amount for
attaining the ranking threshold.
• Club-paid Performance Bonuses earned as of the “pause”
o If a Player met the threshold requirement(s) for a Performance Bonus as of the “pause”, the
Player will receive 100% of the Bonus amount. Payment shall be made within ten (10) days
hereof if not already made.
• Club-paid Performance Bonuses not yet earned as of the “pause”
o If a Player had not yet met the threshold requirement(s) for a Performance Bonus as of the
“pause” and was a Roster Freeze Player:
▪ If, by the end of the 2019-20 Season, he meets the threshold requirement(s) only after
the threshold is pro-rated by a factor of [70/82], he shall receive the Bonus amount prorated by a factor of [70/82].
▪ If, by the end of the 2019-20 Season, he meets the threshold requirement(s) without
the threshold being pro-rated by a factor of [70/82], he shall receive 100% of the Bonus
amount.
▪ Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Player has played in 100% of his Club’s Regular
Season Games and has a Performance Bonus for playing in 82 Regular Season Games, he
will receive a Bonus Amount pro-rated by a factor of [70/82].
o If a Player had not yet met the threshold requirement(s) for a Performance Bonus as of the
“pause” and was not a Roster Freeze Player:
▪ If, by the end of the 2019-20 Season, he meets the threshold requirement(s) without
the threshold being pro-rated by a factor of [70/82], he shall receive 100% of the Bonus
amount.

Page 58 of 71

▪

•

If, by the end of the 2019-20 Season, he does not meet the threshold requirement(s)
without the threshold being pro-rated by a factor of [70/82], he shall not receive any
amount.
The parties agree the February 21, 2001 “Settlement of Grievances Concerning “Traveling” Bonus
Provisions” is applicable per usual practice to all 2019-20 performance bonuses.

Salary Arbitration
• For 2020, a Salary Arbitrator, at his or her sole discretion, may choose to conduct a Salary Arbitration
hearing “remotely”. Except as expressly agreed to by the NHL and NHLPA, there shall be no other
changes to the Salary Arbitration procedures set out in Article 12 and the CBA, provided, however, the
parties agree to engage in further negotiations, as necessary, to implement the “remote” hearing
procedures contemplated herein.
• For 2020, in the event a Club exercises their Walk-Away Right (pursuant to Section 12.10 of the CBA)
relating to a one-year Salary Arbitration award, the Player may within four (4) days of receipt of notice
from the Club that they are exercising their Walk-Away Right, elect to enter into an SPC with the Club on
the same terms as the Club had offered in the Club’s Salary Arbitration Brief.
Players on Loan as of June 1
• Such Players may participate in Phase 2 on a voluntary basis and do not require a formal Recall to do so.
• Any such Player participating in Phases 2 and 3 and who is not on Recall will continue to be treated as
being on Loan during such period of time.
• Such Players injured in Phases 2 and 3 (if not on Recall) will be provided the same CBA and SPC rights
and benefits as if they sustained an “off-season” (Phase 2) or “training camp” (Phase 3) injury (including
for purposes of Section 15.6).
• Such Players who participate in Phase 2, 3 and 4 will receive a full NHL per diem (as calculated for the
2019-20 season) during all Phases of the Return to Play protocol.
Phases 3 and 4 Participation
• Clubs will be limited during Phase 3 (while in Club’s home city) to no more than 30 skaters and an
unlimited number of goaltenders, provided all Players included within such group are eligible to play in
the 2019-20 Playoffs.
• If a Player is not Recalled by the end of Phase 3, he must be sent home. i.e. A Player cannot travel to the
Hub City or participate in any manner during Phase 4 unless he has been Recalled prior to travelling to
the Hub City.
• Clubs will be limited during Phase 4, and for travel to the Hub Cities, to no more than 28 skaters and an
unlimited number of goaltenders, provided all Players included within such group are eligible to play in
the 2019-20 Playoffs.
• All Players participating in Phases 3 and 4 will be included within these maximum numbers regardless of
the roster status of such participating Players.
• All Players participating in Phases 3 and 4 will be covered by insurance as detailed in the Insurance
Coverages (Article 23) and Additional Insurance below.
Signing of NHL SPCs
• All thirty-one (31) Clubs and their respective Unsigned Draft Choices will be permitted to enter into NHL
SPCs (provided the Player is not otherwise restricted from doing so, e.g. the Player was subject to the
June 15 signing deadline within a relevant IIHF agreement) that commence with the 2019-20 season on
the following conditions only:
Page 59 of 71

o

•

•
•

The SPC may be signed beginning on the third day following the effective date of this agreement
(12:00 noon New York time) and must be signed by no later than five (5) days after the effective
date of this agreement (5:00 p.m. New York time).
o The SPC cannot contain a Signing Bonus or a Performance Bonus for the 2019-20 League Year.
o The SPC can contain a Signing Bonus for the 2020-21 League Year or later, provided however,
the Signing Bonus for the 2020-21 League Year cannot be payable prior to the date the parties
agree to be the opening of 2020 Free Agency within the adjusted Critical Dates Calendar.
o The Player is not eligible to play in the 2019-20 QR Games or Round of 16.
No earlier than the third day following the effective date of this agreement (12:00 noon New York time),
the following Players will be permitted to enter into an NHL SPC that commences with the 2020-21
season (subject to restrictions provided under the IIHF agreements) and provided they otherwise would
have been permitted to do so on July 1, 2020:
o Unsigned Draft Choices
o Draft-Related Unrestricted Free Agents
o Unrestricted Free Agents
o Restricted Free Agents
No earlier than the third day following the effective date of this agreement (12:00 noon New York time),
Clubs and Players will be permitted to enter into NHL SPCs that commence with the 2021-22 season
provided such Player would have otherwise met the requirements to do so on July 1, 2020.
Beginning on July 1st until the date which is seven (7) days prior to the commencement of the 2020-21
Regular Season, the League shall have five (5) days from the day following Central Registry’s receipt of
an SPC (provided it was received by Central Registry by 5:00 p.m. New York time; SPCs received by
Central Registry after 5:00 p.m. New York time will be deemed to have been received on the following
day for purposes of this provision) to approve and register, or reject, an SPC.

No Trade/No Move Clauses
• A Player who under a provision of his SPC is entitled to submit or who has submitted a “List of Teams” to
which he does or does not wish to be Traded (in accordance with the NTC or NMC in his SPC) from
March 12, 2020 through the earlier of September 1, 2020 or twenty-one (21) days before the agreed
upon date of the 2020 NHL Entry Draft (the “Eligibility Period”) shall be required to submit (or permitted
to resubmit) such “List of Teams” by 5:00 p.m. New York time on the earlier of September 15, 2020 or
fifteen (15) days before the agreed upon date of the 2020 NHL Draft (the “Resubmission Deadline”). If
the date of the 2020 NHL Entry Draft is not known by August 25, 2020, then the end date of the
Eligibility Period shall be September 1, 2020 and the Resubmission Deadline shall be September 15,
2020.
• Contracts containing No Trade/No Move Clauses in which the terms of such clause are altered on, or
come into effect as of, July 1, 2020, will be deemed amended such that such alteration or effectiveness
will occur on the date the parties agree to be the opening of Free Agency (or the corresponding similar
date) within the adjusted Critical Dates Calendar.
• Contracts containing No Trade/No Move Clauses in which the terms of such clause are altered on, or
come into effect after July 1, 2020, will be deemed amended such that such alteration or effectiveness
will occur on the corresponding number of days after the date the parties agree to be the opening of
Free Agency.
• Contracts containing No Trade/No Move Clauses in which the terms of such clause are altered on, or
come/came into effect prior to July 1, 2020, will be deemed amended such that such alteration or
effectiveness will occur on the date before the Stanley Cup Final begins but not prior to the
Resubmission Deadline.
Page 60 of 71

•

Additionally, contracts containing No Trade/No Move Clauses that were to become effective for the
2020-21 season due to the Player becoming eligible for Group 3 status effective with the 2020-21
season, will not be deemed effective until the date the parties agree to be the opening of Free Agency
within the adjusted Critical Dates Calendar.

Buyouts
• The parties agree that for purposes of First Period Buyouts done following the 2019-20 season, the
rights of the Club/Player will be determined as if the Buyout had occurred as of June 15, 2020.
Waivers
• The final 2019-20 Regular Season standings (using point percentages) will be the determinative
standings for Waiver purposes through the first 20 days of the 2020-21 season (i.e., November 1 within
Section 13.19 will be replaced by the 20th day of the 2020-21 season).
S. 11.4 Signing Deadline for a Group 2 Free Agent
• The December 1 deadline shall occur on the date that is closest to the one-quarter (1/4) mark of the
2020-21 Regular Season.
S. 13.23 Waivers
• The December 15 date shall occur on the date that is closest to the one-third (1/3) mark of the 2020-21
Regular Season.
Salary Cap
• Performance Bonus overages for 2020-21 season will be calculated per usual practice. However, such
calculations will use the Clubs’ cap projections as of the end of the day on March 12, 2020 and will
assume all Players that were eligible for Loan were Loaned on March 13, 2020 for determining cap room
available for accommodating Performance Bonuses paid. Clubs that are determined to have
Performance Bonus overage attributable to the 2020-21 season will have the option to evenly distribute
such overage to the 2020-21 and 2021-22 seasons (i.e. 50% of the calculated overage being distributed
to each season). Such option must be exercised by no later than seven (7) days prior to the “RFA/UFA
Signing Period Beginning.”
• Cap Advantage Recapture – Total Payment and Total Cap Charge to be calculated based on full season
face values for the 2019-20 season, disregarding the impact the pause had on payroll and the cap.
• Days on Roster for various CBA provisions for the 2019-20 season will be based on the original 186 day
schedule and each Player’s status over the course of the 2019-20 season through and including April 4,
2020 (the last scheduled day of the 2019-20 Regular Season).
• “Off-Season cap accounting” (Section 50.5(d)(A)), for purposes of determining Clubs’ compliance with
the Upper Limit, and the accompanying 10% flexibility afforded during the off-season, will not
commence until the date the parties agree to be the opening of Free Agency within the adjusted Critical
Dates Calendar.
• The 10% increase in the Upper Limit for the purpose of calculating Tagged Payroll Room that came into
effect on March 1, 2020 shall continue through and including the date prior to the opening of Free
Agency within the adjusted Critical Dates Calendar.
Average League Salary
• No change to the principles used in the calculation of ALS from the 2005 CBA. However, following the
calculation of the 2019-20 ALS using such principles, the 2019-20 ALS will be set by taking the midpoint
Page 61 of 71

between such calculated value and the 2018-19 ALS (the “Modified 2019-20 ALS”). The calculated
percentage increase from 2018-19 ALS to Modified 2019-20 ALS will be applied to all related provisions.
For 2020-21, the calculation of the percentage increase in ALS (and its application to all related
provisions) shall be based on the percentage increase from Modified 2019-20 ALS to 2020-21 ALS. The
parties agree to finalize Modified 2019-20 ALS and all related provisions (based on the 2019-20 Season)
by no later than July 15, 2020.
Loans for 2020-21 Season
• Commencing on July 1, 2020, Players may be Loaned to another league at his NHL Club’s discretion for
the 2020-21 season. A Player may only be so Loaned to a league permitted under the terms of the CBA
and his SPC, or to a league where such Player has requested or been granted permission for such a Loan,
if to a league not otherwise permitted.
• Any such Loaned Player will be deemed to be on Loan during the period of such Loan and the Player and
Club will be granted the appropriate rights and benefits provided by the CBA and his SPC while the
Player remains on Loan.
• A Player who is so Loaned and who is required to clear Waivers pursuant to Article 13 prior to being
Loaned during the 2020-21 season, may be so Loaned without first clearing Waivers provided that the
Player is returned to the NHL Club holding his rights upon either the Club’s or the Player’s request, on an
agreed upon date, but in no event later than seven (7) days prior to the scheduled commencement of
the 2020-21 NHL season.
• A Player who is Loaned per the immediately preceding paragraph may, with the Club’s permission,
remain on Loan past the date specified in the paragraph above provided such Player clears Waivers
during the period following the start of the 2020-21 Playing Season Waiver Period through the date
provided for his return. If such a Player is not Waived during this period, he must be Recalled by his NHL
Club and will require Waivers prior to being subsequently Loaned again during the 2020-21 season.
• A Player who is so Loaned and who does not require Waivers pursuant to Article 13 prior to being
Loaned for the 2020-21 season, may be so Loaned without the requirement to return to his NHL Club by
the date(s) as required above for Waiver-eligible Players. A Club’s ability to Recall such a Player will be
dictated by the terms of the CBA, the terms of the assignment clause in the Player’s SPC (where
applicable), and/or by the terms of any Loan agreement between the NHL Club and the team to which
the Player is Loaned.
• All such Loans will be subject to the terms of other relevant agreements (e.g. the various IIHF
agreements), as applicable.
• The loan of any Player prior to the start of the 2020-21 NHL Regular Season will not affect his continued
eligibility for NHL offseason insurance coverage for which he has qualified.
Pension Service (Article 21)
• Any game credited during the 2019-20 Regular Season (October 2, 2019 to March 11, 2020) shall be
grossed up by a factor of 1.21 and then rounded to the nearest integer, such that a full year of service
shall be credited for any Player who is credited with 68 or more games during this period. With respect
to game credits for suspended Players, credits will be awarded subject to the agreement between the
parties regarding the treatment of pension credits for suspensions. The agreement between the parties
with respect to Injured Non-Roster and Non-Roster players and the calculation of adjustments for games
missed due to a trade or waiver claims will also apply in the calculation of game credits.
• The pro-ration rules set forth above will be applied for purposes of CBA Section 15.6 for Roster Freeze
Players but will not apply to other areas of the CBA that may otherwise reference Pension credits (e.g.,
Section 15.3).
Page 62 of 71

Insurance Coverages (Article 23)
• Health insurance eligibility will follow the offseason eligibility rules agreed to by Bill Daly in June 5 email
to Don Zavelo at 12:02 pm. The special eligibility rules for this offseason are in addition to, and not in
place of, the eligibility rules for offseason coverage under Article 23.8. (This clarification was noted in an
email from Don Zavelo to Bill Daly on June 5 at 2:51 pm). All Players who qualify for offseason coverage
will be covered until the first day of the 2020-21 Regular Season. Any Standby Player who is added to
the expanded roster who does not have NHL or AHL health insurance will be covered for emergency
medical or dental expenses incurred which arises as the result of an injury or illness incurred during the
duration of his recall during Phase 3 and Phase 4, including travel to and from. This coverage is the
same as coverage provided for Players in Article 23.9 during Training Camp and summer Conditioning
Camps.
• Disability insurance eligibility will follow the same eligibility rules as health insurance with coverage
extending to the first day of the 2020-21 Regular Season. Existing coverage is to be extended to include
Standby Players who do not otherwise qualify for coverage under the offseason rules to cover their
participation in Phase 3 and Phase 4. The existing disability insurance policy already covers Standby
Players for injury only while playing or practicing with their NHL team during a playoff recall. This
coverage is to be extended to cover disability as the result of sickness or injury while the player is
participating in Phase 3 and Phase 4. The parties agree to consider, in consultation with the Fund’s
benefits consultants, increased amounts of coverage for sickness under the career-ending disability
insurance policy to cover Players participating in Phase 3 and Phase 4 in the event a Player contracts
COVID and suffers long term health issues that proves to be career-ending. Such review will also include
the possibility that increased coverage may also extend to the 2020-21 season.
• Life insurance eligibility to be extended to January 1 (from November 1), or such later date as
determined following the start date of the 2020-21 Regular Season. Coverage to be extended to all
Standby Players participating in Phase 3 and Phase 4, if the Player has not already qualified for life
insurance coverage in the season. Coverage to commence as soon as the Player is recalled by the team
and should extend to cover the Player during his participation in the Phase 3 training camp period and
the Player’s travel to his NHL city (or location where his team is holding training camp). The parties
agree to consider, in consultation with the Fund’s benefits consultants, increased amounts of life
insurance coverage for Players participating in Phase 3 and Phase 4 in the event a Player contracts
COVID and suffers serious health issues that results in death. Such review will also include the possibility
that increased coverage may also extend to the 2020-21 season.
Additional Insurance Coverage
• The NHL shall cover the cost of additional Disability Insurance for Players participating in Phase 3 and
Phase 4, up to a total cost of $1,500,000. The type and amount of coverage is to be determined by the
NHLPA to provide additional coverage, over and above coverage already provided under Article 23
(including any increased amounts determined after review with the Fund’s benefits consultants as noted
above), to cover loss of future earnings beyond the Player’s current SPC in the event a Player contracts
COVID and suffers long term health issues that prove to be career-ending.
Housing/Benefits
• All Players that can demonstrate bona fide and incremental costs for housing due to the extension of
the 2019-20 season and associated with attending Phase 2 and Phase 3 in the Club’s home city are
entitled to be reimbursed for such incremental costs through and including the conclusion of each Club’s
Phase 3 Training Camp in the Club’s home city, provided that the total amount of reimbursement shall
be capped at the maximum amount permitted under CBA Section 14.2(a)(vii)).
Page 63 of 71

•
•

Players without housing in the Club’s home city that are participating in Phases 2 and 3 will be provided
at least single room hotel accommodations at the Club’s expense for the same period as above, and
family-appropriate accommodation if their families are accompanying the Player.
Clubs will additionally be required to provide rental cars for Player use during the same period set out
above, to the extent necessary.

Page 64 of 71

ATTACHMENT N
ADJUSTED CRITICAL DATES CALENDAR
DATE

EVENT

Jul-01

2020-21 League Year begins for contract signing purposes

Jul-10

Training Camps Open (14 days)

Jul-24

Travel to Hub Cities (1 day)

Jul-25

Exhibition Games (5 days)

Jul-30

Qualifying Rounds (10 days)

Aug-09

First Round Playoffs Begin (≤ 14 days)

Aug-23

Second Round Playoffs Begin (≤ 14 days)

Sep-06

Third Round Playoffs Begin (≤ 14 days)

Sep-20
Later of Sep-25 or Beginning of
SCF
Oct-02
Oct-04

Stanley Cup Final Begins (≤ 13 days)

For Clubs that are playing after
Oct-02, this deadline shall be two
(2) days following the last game
played in the final Playoff round
they play.
Oct-06

First Buy-Out Period Begins
Last Possible Game of Stanley Cup Final

Deadline for First Club-Elected Salary Arbitration Notification (5:00 p.m. ET)

2020 NHL Draft (Tentative - but must follow conclusion of SCF and precede “RFA/UFA Signing
Period Begins” date)

Oct-06
For Clubs that are playing after
Oct-02, this deadline shall be
four (4) days following the last
game played in the final Playoff
round they play.
Later of Oct-08 or SCF + six (6)
days

Deadline for Qualifying Offers (5:00 p.m. ET), which are not open for acceptance prior to the
“Qualifying Offers Open for Acceptance (12:00 p.m. ET)” date

First Buy-Out Period Ends (5:00 p.m. ET)

Later of Oct-09 or SCF + seven (7)
days

Qualifying Offers Open for Acceptance (12:00 p.m. ET)

Oct-10

Deadline for Player-Elected Salary Arbitration Notification (5:00 p.m. ET)
Deadline for RFA Offer Sheets for Players for whom Clubs have elected Salary Arbitration
pursuant to First Club-Elected Salary Arbitration (5:00 p.m. ET). Note: Offer Sheets cannot be
made prior to the “RFA/UFA Signing Period Begins” date.

For Clubs that are playing after
Oct-02, this deadline shall be
eight (8) days following the last
game played in the final Playoff
round they play.
Oct-11
For Clubs that are playing after
Oct-02, this deadline shall be
nine (9) days following the last
game played in the final Playoff
round they play.
Oct-12*

RFA/UFA Signing Period Begins (12:00 p.m. ET)

Commencement of Second Club-Elected Salary Arbitration Notification (5:01 p.m. ET)

Deadline for Second Club-Elected Salary Arbitration Notification (5:00 p.m. ET)

Scheduling of Salary Arbitration Hearings* (See 2020 Salary Arbitration Scheduling Procedures
below)

Page 65 of 71

DATE

EVENT

Later of Oct-18 or SCF + 16 days

Qualifying Offers Expire Automatically (5:00 p.m. ET)

Oct-20

First Day of Salary Arbitration Hearings (20 days)*

Nov-08*
48 hours following the last Salary
Arbitration Hearing
48 hours after Club’s last Salary
Arbitration Award/Settlement
24 hours beginning on the
second day after Club’s last
Salary Arbitration
Award/Settlement
Nov-17

Last Day of Salary Arbitration Hearings*

Dec-01

2020-21 Regular Season Begins (Tentative)

Last Day for Issuance of Salary Arbitration Awards
Deadline to Exercise Walk-Away Right

Deadline for Second Buy-Out Period (as applicable)1
Training Camps Open (14 days) (Tentative)

*: 2020 Salary Arbitration Scheduling Procedures
•

The parties will select eight (8) Hearing dates from each Salary Arbitrator (if possible) evenly spaced throughout the Oct-20 to Nov08 Salary Arbitration Period.

•

The parties will schedule all Salary Arbitration elections that have been confirmed received by Oct-11 (5:00 p.m. ET). If necessary and
possible, the parties will set aside one Hearing slot per day from Nov-06 to Nov-08 (“held slots”) for each Club that is playing after
Oct-02. (e.g. if there are two Clubs playing after Oct-02, then the parties shall set aside a total of six Hearing slots (if necessary and
possible) from Nov-06 and Nov-08 for these purposes). Prior to the commencement of the Oct-12 Scheduling call, the parties shall
select such held slots, utilizing the procedure set out in S. 12.7 of the CBA, except that the party that is to select second on the
Scheduling call will make the first selection of a held slot and, where possible, a Salary Arbitrator will not be selected for a second
held slot until all Salary Arbitrators have been selected for at least one held slot.

•

All Salary Arbitration elections occurring after Oct-11 (5:00 p.m. ET) are to be scheduled as a continuation of the preceding
scheduling process (e.g. if the NHLPA made the last selection on Oct-12 then the NHL makes the first selection to place new
elections). Scheduling done after Oct-12 will be completed within 24 hours of each successive deadline for each Playoff Round with
all new elections following that Round being scheduled in one Scheduling call. The parties agree that no Player-Elected/Club-Elected
Salary Arbitration Hearing will be scheduled within ten (10) days of its corresponding Player-Elected/Club-Elected Salary Arbitration
Notification deadline applicable to a Player/Club, unless otherwise acceptable to both Player and Club. As soon as it becomes known
that a Hearing date would fall outside the period of Oct-20 to Nov-08 on account hereof, the Parties will immediately seek additional
dates and schedule these Hearings with the Salary Arbitrators who have the earliest availability after Nov-08, unless both Player and
Club agree to have the Hearing during the Oct-20 to Nov-08 period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Player-Elected/Club-Elected
Salary Arbitration Hearing will be scheduled following the later of (i) Nov-08 and (ii) twenty (20) days following its corresponding
Player-Elected/Club-Elected Salary Arbitration Notification deadline applicable to a Player/Club.

1

In the event a Club elects to Buy-Out a Player with a No-Move clause during this period, the Club will not have a requirement to
provide the Player with the option of electing to be placed on Waivers and shall be permitted to proceed immediately with the BuyOut without waivers being required. Additionally, for 2020 only, a Club shall not be entitled to exercise a Second Period Buyout as
set out in s. 11.18 of the CBA for any Player with an Averaged Amount less than $4,000,000.

Page 66 of 71

ATTACHMENT R
July __, 2020
Dear Bill,
This letter is to memorialize our agreement to resolve the parties’ dispute regarding the amount to
be included in HRR as a Top-Side adjustment on account of all rights conveyed by Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment to 8047286 Canada Inc. (other than radio broadcast rights) pursuant to the 2012 Content
Rights Agreement (the “Toronto Rights Agreement”) for the remaining League Years in which that
Toronto Rights Agreement remains in effect (Item No. 632). For the League Years set forth below, the
HRR attributable to the cable television broadcasts of the Toronto Maple Leafs shall be:
League Year
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
2025-26

HRR (CAD)
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*
$XX,XXX,XXX*

For purposes of clarity, the amounts set forth above shall be included as Top-Side adjustments to
HRR and shall not impact any calculations with respect to the Toronto Maple Leafs pursuant to Article
49. Further, in the event of any “make-good” or reduction in rights fees or inventory, the Top-Side
adjustment for the given League Year shall be reduced by a proportional amount to the amount of the
“make good” or reduction in rights fees or inventory based on the terms of the underlying agreement.
Provided that the amounts are included in HRR as set forth above, the NHLPA will not initiate a
System Grievance or other proceeding with respect to: (i) the Toronto Rights Agreement (unless the
parties thereto materially change the terms of that agreement), provided, however, that the NHLPA
reserves its right to initiate a System Grievance or other proceeding with respect to any “make good” or
reduction of the rights fees or inventory based on the terms of the underlying agreement or (ii) the requests
for documents or other information it has made to the NHL and/or the Toronto Maple Leafs regarding the
same (i.e., the NHLPA’s February 8, 2017, March 1, 2017 and July 24, 2018 requests).
This agreement is without precedent or prejudice and is not admissible as evidence or otherwise
in any grievance or other proceeding, whether on a similar or different topic, except a proceeding to
enforce the terms of this agreement.
Please sign below to confirm this letter accurately reflects the parties’ agreement with respect to
the subject matter herein.
Sincerely,

Don Zavelo, General Counsel
Page 67 of 71

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE
PLAYERS’ ASSOCATION

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:

William L. Daly for the
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE

*Information noted by an asterisk has been removed from the printed text. Players and Clubs may obtain
all of the omitted information upon request to the NHLPA or the League.
Page 68 of 71

ATTACHMENT S
July __, 2020
Dear Bill,
This letter is to memorialize our agreement to resolve the issues related to certain NHL Clubs’ payroll
practices related to the interpretation and application of the Pittsburgh Nonresident Sports Facility Usage
Fee (“Sports Facility Usage Fee”), as were more fully described in a February 14, 2020 letter from Steve
Kidder to Jeff White.
The parties agree that this resolution will be based on the following agreed upon principles, subject to
compliance with applicable tax code(s):
•
•
•
•
•

Unless and until the Usage Fee is invalidated or repealed, a Player’s duty days for purposes of
determining the amount of the Sports Facility Usage Fee to be charged against him should only
be those duty days on which the Player performs services in PPG Paints Arena;
While the City of Pittsburgh changed its allocation method from duty days to “games played”
effective January 1, 2017, the games played method is alleged by the NHLPA to violate
Pennsylvania state law, 53 Pa.C.S. § 6924.501;
A Player who is a non-resident of Pittsburgh and is subject to the Sports Facility Usage Fee is
exempt from Pittsburgh City Income Tax and should not be charged both the Fee and the City
Income Tax;
A Player who is a resident of Pittsburgh is liable for Pittsburgh City Income Tax but not liable for
the Sports Facility Usage Fee and should not be charged both the City Income Tax and the Sports
Facility Usage Fee; and
A Player who is a non-resident of Pennsylvania is exempt from any Local Income Tax (including
any Local School District Tax) in Pennsylvania.

Therefore, the NHL, on behalf of itself and its Clubs, agrees as follows:
1. As of the date of this agreement and unless and until the current Sports Facility Usage Fee is
invalidated or repealed, all NHL Clubs shall henceforth calculate and collect the Sports Facility
Usage Fee based solely on each Player’s duty days in which he performs services in the PPG Paints
Arena in accordance with applicable tax code(s).
2. In accordance with all applicable tax code(s), all NHL Clubs, including but not limited to the
Pittsburgh Penguins, New Jersey Devils, Philadelphia Flyers and Arizona Coyotes, shall
immediately cease withholding Pittsburgh City Income Tax from any Player whose residence is
outside of the Pittsburgh city limits, and cease withholding Local Income Tax from any Player
who is not a Pennsylvania resident.
3. On behalf of the Penguins, Devils, Flyers and Coyotes (hereinafter, the “Settling Clubs”), the NHL
shall make available for payment to Players and former Players up to Nine Million, Five Hundred
Thousand U.S. Dollars ($X,XXX,XXX*) (hereinafter, the “Settlement Amount”, which Amount,
Page 69 of 71

for purposes of clarity, shall include employer-related payroll taxes, if any) to reimburse: (a) those
Players and former Players currently or formerly employed by the Settling Clubs from whom the
Sports Facility Usage Fee was withheld in excess of an amount attributable to the Player’s actual
duty days in which he performed services in PPG Paints Arena (or previously Mellon Arena) since
on or about January 1, 2005 and/or (b) to reimburse such Players and former Players from whom
both the Sports Facility Usage Fee and Pittsburgh City Income Tax was withheld from their
respective salaries for the same duty days, since on or about January 1, 2005; and/or (c) to
reimburse such Players or former Players from whom Local Income Tax was withheld even though
their residences were not in Pennsylvania. The NHL (on behalf of the Settling Clubs) shall pay to
such Players and former Players such amounts as are determined by the NHLPA, subject to the
procedures in Paragraph 5 below and provided that the Settling Clubs’ total liability shall be
limited to the $X,XXX,XXX* aggregate Settlement Amount described in this Paragraph. Amounts
payable to the Players and former Players shall be subject to any and all applicable income tax
reporting and withholding requirements and obligations. In the event that the NHLPA and/or
current or former Players recover as a result of litigation (including settlement) any portion of the
Sports Facility Usage Fee, Pittsburgh City Income Tax or Local Income Tax that is (i) specifically
listed on the payment schedule set forth in Paragraph 5 below and (ii) was paid to the Players by
the NHL, the NHL (on behalf of the Settling Clubs) shall be entitled to recover the same amount
up to $X,XXX,XXX*.
4. The NHLPA shall exercise its discretion to determine the amount of Sports Facility Usage Fee and
City or Local Income Tax to be reimbursed pursuant to Paragraph 3 above, subject to the process
described in Paragraph 5 below; provided, however, that the Settling Clubs shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to provide such payroll and other information as the NHLPA reasonably
requests in order to make such determination.
5. On or before February 1, 2021, the NHLPA will provide to each Settling Club and the NHL a
schedule (the “Proposed Payment Schedule”) identifying by name each Player who meets one of
the criteria set forth in Paragraph 3 above and the amount of Sports Facility Usage Fee, Pittsburgh
City Income Tax or Local Income Tax to be reimbursed. Within 60 days of receipt of the Proposed
Payment Schedule, the League, on behalf of the Settling Clubs, will notify the NHLPA if it has an
objection to any payment set forth in the Proposed Payment Schedule. For each such objection,
the League, on behalf of the Settling Clubs, will provide a detailed written explanation of the
objection. The parties recognize that estimates for payments related to earlier years may need to
be presented on the basis of the best available information. Within 60 days of receipt of any
objection, the NHLPA and the League (on behalf of the Settling Clubs) will work in good faith to
resolve the objection. If they are not able to resolve the objection, the parties may refer their dispute
to the Impartial Arbitrator appointed pursuant to Article 17 of the CBA to decide the objection.
Following resolution of the objections, if revisions are required, the NHLPA will provide a revised
Payment Schedule to the NHL. The NHL (on behalf of the Settling Clubs) shall then arrange for
payment to be made to the Players and former Players. The NHL shall be responsible for
transmitting the applicable payments directly to the Players and former Players.
6. Upon the Players and former Players receipt of all of the payments referenced above, the NHLPA
agrees not to file a Grievance in relation to the NHL Clubs’ past payroll practices described in the
February 14, 2020 letter from Steve Kidder to Jeff White.
Page 70 of 71

7. This agreement is without precedent or prejudice and is not admissible as evidence or otherwise
in any grievance or other proceeding, whether on a similar or different topic, except a proceeding
to enforce the terms of this agreement.
Please sign below to confirm this letter accurately reflects the parties’ agreement with respect to the subject
matter herein.
Sincerely,

Don Zavelo, General Counsel
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE
PLAYERS’ ASSOCATION

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:

William L. Daly for the
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE

*Information noted by an asterisk has been removed from the printed text. Players and Clubs may
obtain all of the omitted information upon request to the NHLPA or the League.
Page 71 of 71

